A Bloudy new-yeares gift, OR A TRVE DECLAration of the most cruell and bloudy murther, of maister Robert Heath, in his owne house at high Holbourne, being the signe of the fire-brand: which murther was committed by Rowland Cramphorne, seruant and Tapster to the said Heath: On new-yearesday last past in the morning, 1609.

Whereunto is annexed, sundry exploits of Tendance, otherwise called Double diligence, seruant vnto Derricke the Hangman, Who with his Consort (Olde dublets) was executed at Tyborne, in Ianuary last past 1609.


London printed for B. S. & W. B. and are to be solde at their shop at the great north doore of saint Paules Church. 1609.


L A

To the Reader.
IN the relation (gentle reader) of the ensuing discourse, I haue bin so dilligent and carefull, that I haue rather failed to write so much as I might, then any way I come short of truth and sinceritie. I heard the offenders tryall and conuiction, at the Sessions house, and according to the enstructions, there deliuered in euidence, haue briefely set downe the whole summe in effect, though not so orderly (perhaps) as a better iudgemenr could haue done. I stand free (I trust from partialitie, or sinister construction) being no way waged for the one, or fearefully doubting of the other. And in the opening of such criminal cases, concerning persons of no


higher qualitie. I am of the minde, that any writer (keeping himself within the boundes and limits of truth) hath freedome of his pen, and good ground for his publication; Because such examples remaining to posteritie, do expresse the care and industry of precedent times, in punishing such sinnes, and serue as mirrours or spectacles, for others to auoid the like monstrous enormities.

I haue heard an infinite number of rumors, concerning this present murder committed, and strange constructions, vppon as strange obseruations. I was neuer so giddily affected, as rashly to beleeue, or leane resoluedly to any, but what I both saw and heard, in the honourable Court of Iustice, and in the best maner I could, I haue followed the course of direct information, such as from the worthy paines of the Coroner, his empanelled Enquest, and the Iustices that had the examination of the cause, was euidently, plainely, and iustly deliuered.


Therefore, with that olde grammaticall rule, Foelix quem faciunt aliena pericula cautum,

I knit vp this short preface, desiring that the punishment of this mans offence may so serue in example, as the like bloudy sinne, either in, or neere this famous Citie, may neuer heerafter (by any one) be committed.

    FINIS.

A true declaration, Of the Araignement, Conuiction, and Execution, of Rowland Cramphorne a Tapster, for most cruell and bloudy murthering his Ma. Robert Heath a Cooke, in his owne house at high Holborne on New yeares day last in the morning. 1609.
THe tragicall discourse we haue in hand to relate, doth first very necessaryly require, that we should speake somwhat concerning the person who was the Actor of so dismall a stratageine, concerning his former life and noted behauiour, likely to suite with so wretched a conclusion: As (no doubt) there are many of this profession, who are of honest inclination and good gouerment, though it be a qualitie subiect to much inciuility, yet this young man had bin obserued by diuers, to be very idle in disposition, loose and giddie headed in affection and behauiour, and

drinke, which is the destruction of too many, had more power of him, then was seemly or conuenient.

And hauing by his wanton enticements, ouercome the too forward yeelding of a comely young Maiden, with promise of mariage, oathes and other protestations: when such time came, as she was knowne to be great with child, and (both for support of her brused credit, and auoyding such scandale, as thereby might ensue to him) had betaken her selfe so out of sight, that no publique detection should lay holde on either: She was at last deliuered, and then challenging him of his former vowed faith and promise, to repayre the ruine of her lost reputation, he vtterly abiured any knowledge of her, or that any such matter had bin done by him, threatning to haue her seuerely punished, if she durst afterward lay any such reproche to his charge. She hauing no other helpe but pacience, or any freinds to sted her in so wofull an extremitie, was compelled to be silent, and giue ouer any further claime vnto him, Only thus she parted from him, with these or the like speeches. Farewell Rowland, thou and none but thou (vpon my soule) hast bin the euerthrow of a poore Maide, I forgiue thee from my hart, but am perswaded, that (one day) God will reuenge my cause, and (though I wishe it not, for I loue thee but too well) that I shall line to see thee come to some shamefull end, nay worse then shame, if worse may be. For mine owne parte, this badge of my deserued infamy, which I beare by thee, and this poore childe, ye fruit of a false and periurde father: I wil beare, the one as I may, and comforte the other as God shall enable me, not doubting, but I shall get a pennie to buy it foode, when thou shalt perishe in shame and disgrace.

I could likewise here set downe other knowne detections, as of an other woman, who both before, and during

all the time of his trouble was his only freind and maintayner. Likewise, what all the neighbours there about haue noted, in his daylye cariage and behauiour, and what hath bin said concerning his Mistresse: But let all these imputations now dye with him, and proceed we to deliuer his notorious offence.

Vpon Fryday, being the 17 of Februarie, Rowland Cramphorne was endighted and araigned at the Sessions house in the olde Baylie, before my Lord Maior, and his Maiesties Commissioners in case of Iustice; of willfull murder and pettie treason, for murdering his M. Robert Heath, with an yron fyer Forke, giuing him his deathes wound vpon his head. He pleaded to his Enditement, not guiltie, and for his further triall, did put himselfe vpon God and his Countrie, according to the ordinarie proceeding in the like cases. Heerupon, diuers good and substantiall witnesses were there produced, that had before giuen in theire Euidence to the Coroners Enquest. But in regard they were many, to the number of twelue, or there about: the proofes that were most pregnant, and neerest to the purpose, were only made vse of, which was the maide seruant of the house, the boy also of the house, who was bedfellowe to Rowland, a Gentleman lodging in the house, and a Ioyner being the next neighbor, who heard the noyse in the house, when the bloodie act was performed.

The effect of the maides Euidence, was, that her maister, being one that kept much companie, bin abroad, and came home somwhat disguised in drinke, where sitting downe in his kitchin by the Fire, after the departure of two or three friends that had come in, and there fitten a while with him; he fell asleepe in his Chaire, his wife going to bed about nine of the clock. And because the keye of her Chamber Doore was missing, and her


husband vsed often to come late to bed, shee would haue the maide set the Table against the dore when she came to bed, that so she mighth me knowledge of her husbands comming, she said she did. None now remained vp in the house, but the Maide and Rowland, except the Gentleman that lay in the house, who hauing bin hidden by Maister Heath to supper, and fayling thereof by reason of his hostes late cōming in went vp into his Chamber, and two more with him, where hauing a Fyre made him, and calling for a pot of beere. Rowland brought him vp a Iugge that held sixe penie worth of Beere, whereof the Gentleman drinking but once, and being ouerwatcht with sitting vp the night before at play: leaning backward to his bed, he fell a sleepe, not waking againe vntill he heard the Chimes goe twelue a clock. In this time, the other men that were there, had drunke vp the drinke, and departed while he slept, but at what time, he knewe not. He awaking, and finding his fire out, his frends gone, and him selfe to be very colde, knocked for the Tapster, who comming vp to him, and resoluing him how long he had slept, and of the others departure: the Gentleman desired to haue some more fyre, but the Tapster made answere, that there were no Faggots in the house, albeit there was then aboue two hundred in the Seller. He then required to haue a pot of Beere, but the Tapster replying, that he had lost the keye, would let him haue none. Then the Gentleman saying, that he was both colde and drye, said he would goe forth and knock vp some bodie, where he might haue both fyre and drinke: where to the Tapster was verie willing, making offer to goe with him: but when he heard the Gentleman say, that in regard it was solate, he would not stay long the Tapsters mind was altered, and would not goe at all. Wherevpon, missing the sheetes vpon his bed, and the Rugge also,


which being brought vp by the maide, and by her and Rowland was laid vpon the bed: the Gentleman, cold as he was, and without any drinke, was faine to goe to bed, as him self being there present, deliuered in his Euidence, as hath bin breifely declared.

The Maide, perceiuing her Maister to sit still sleeping, and that it was past two of the clock, locking and bolting the doores both backward and forward with her own hands went vp to bed, setting the Table against the doore, as her Mistris had bidden her: now was Rowland left alone with his Maister, when as it after fell out, the deuill preuailed so farre with him, to doe that horrible deed of darknes. For albeit he went to bed to the boy, whome before he had made drunke both with beere & sack: yet the boy felt when he arose away from him, but could not tell when he came to bed againe: And the maide before her going to bed, had lighted a whole Candle and let by her maister which she found in the morning turned dounward into the socket of the Candle-stick, not fully a quarter burned.

Now in this dead silence of the earlie morning, betweene two or three of the clock, the Ioyner and his wife being in bed, and a freind of theirs lying in the chamber likewise in the vnder bed, heard a great noise in maister Heathes house, as it were the fall of stooles or Chaires: in so much as the stranger said vnto them (bearing the Ioyners dogs keep such a coyle, the one howling, and the other barking:) he wondered how they coulde sleepe, when so great a noise was neere them. The Ioyners wife answered, that being New-yeares day, surely maister Heathes folkes were vp at worke, about their Pyes or such like busines: moreouer, they heard the doore open, which serued to the roome where Rowland lay and within a small while

after, they heard it shut againe: for the Chamber where they lay, was iust ouer the said roome, and the doore was neuer opened or shut, but it would much shake their bed. And the Ioyner would haue risen to see who went out at that doore, but that his wife perswaded him to the contrarie.

at this time (as by all circumstances appeareth) was this vnnaturall deed doone, and the murderer, hoping to out-face the matter, as he afterward did, goes to bed againe, leauing the dores open euery way, sauing that of his owne lodging, which is on the same floore, and but deuided from the Shop: which leauing of the doores thus wide open, must needes be about sixe of the clocke, because a maide seruant to a Barber, had bin there after fiue a clock for sixe, and found them then to be fast shut. Not long after, the maide of the house ariseth, and comming downe in the darke, feeles about the dresser boorde, and finds the candle, so put out as before hath bin declared. And hauing lighted it, sees the wofull spectacle of her maister: whereat being affrighted, she goes and wakes dog-sleeping Rowland, and telles him what he knewe too well, that her maister was murdered: marie god forbid sayes Rowland, it is too true replyes the Maide, Peace. peace sayes Rowland. And being demaunded, wherefore he sayd so: made answer for feare of affrighting his Mistresse.

The outcry of this murder being made, the Ioyner being vp and ready, because he frequented the morning lecture at Christs-Church: among other neighbours went into the house, and being the first that layd hand vpon M. Heath, heaued him vp vpon his buttocks, and found him not to be quite dead, for he fetched a sigh or two, and calling for Aqua-vitae, made meanes to get him vp into his Chamber, but in the cariage vp, his


life expired. The Ioyner demaunding in the name of God, how such a wicked deed could be done, none being in the house, but they appertayning to the house? Rowland answered, he could not tell, the dores were found wide open in the morning. The Wife of the house and the Maide, they made the like answere, and no one could presently be said who did it. But the Constable and other Officers being called for, they were caried before such Magistrates, as are to examine matters of like nature.

Rowlands mony in his pocket was found to be bloodie, and so was the pocket it selfe: he being then demaunded how it so happened? made answer that it might be with helping to lift his Maister, who being much besmered with blood, might bloodie his hands, and so both his mony and pocket might become bloodie. But it was approued, and by the Ioyner maintayned, that he layd no hand then to help vp his Maister, how butcherly soeuer he had smitten him downe before. Beside, vpon the Fire Forke there appeared a drop of blood, as seeming that the act was therwith perfourmed: albeit he confessed afterwarde, that he did it with a double Iugge.

The day before, M. Heath being with some friends neere vnto his house, sent for beere home to his owne Tapster, which was three or foure seuerall times denied him by the Tapster. And when mony was sent, which made him fill the drinke, yet when it was told him it was his maisters, and would pay him when hee came home, he caught the pot and put foorth the drinke againe, and would send him none. Moreouer, it appeered that his M. had some dislike of Rowlāds behauiour, and (as the neighbours haue affirmed) not without good cause, so that he had tolde him, he should make vp his

account, for as neere as the tearme was he would be rid of him. And it is said that that day when his maister came home, he gaue him a box or two on the eare, for denying him drinke, and bad him prouide himselfe, for he should serue him no longer.

The Iury finding him guilty of wilfull murder and treason, did so deliuer vp their verdict, and he had sentence of death, according to law. The tuesday following being the 21, day of February; a Iibbet being set vp at Graies-Inne lane end, somewhat neere vnto the house where the murder was committed. In the after noone of the same day, Rowland Cramphorne, being laide vpon a hurdle, was drawne to the place appointed for execution, where being by good and godly preachers dealt withall, to cleare his own conscience, & deliuer the truth in so doubtfull a case, whether any other had hand or no with him in the action: he would heare no speeches concerning his mist. or the maid, but cleered them asmuch as he could, taking al vpon himself: & loath to heare any further admonishment, which with loue and much charity was laboured vnto him: when he was willed to make no haste, but take time to his owneliking, putting one legge beside the ladder, and they calling him yet to stay, yea the hangman offering to holde him by the choller of his doublet, he desperately threw himselfe off, not willing to listen to any further good counsell.

A briefe declaration of Tendance otherwise called double Diligence, seruant to Derricke the hangman, who with his Consort Olde Dublets, were lately executed at Tyborne, in Ianuary last 1609.
THe royall and Princely lawes and ordinances of this Realme being so strict and punishable as they are, should (as euery man would Iudge) moue all men at the very sight of the execution therof to take warning, which way to auoyde the punishments & penalties of them. But as we finde and sée dayly, none are so apt to transgresse the Lawe as men experienced in the Lawe: none more ready for imprisonment, then such as haue abode the danger thereof before: so that the olde Prouerb is (as it were) falsifyed, namely, The burnt Childe dreades the fire. For asmuch, as many séeing the dangerous euents which are like to proceed and happen vpon parties offending cannot (through the want of grace and seruing of God) eschew, but rather incurre the same, or worse if worse might be. As for example is to be séene, by a most vngracious, vnluckie, false and dissembling villaine, who was seruant to ye Hang-man, or as some call it, his partner, who was as apt and diligent in the quicke dispatching of

any his olde yew-fellowes or accquaintance, Cutpurses, which came vnder his iurisdiction, as euer any hangman (master or seruant) which euer were of the three coruerd order: Yet note the villanous conuersation of that shamelesse villaine. There came not (by report) any young rogue to be admitted into the order or fraternitie of rogues (as the custome is among them they must) but this slaue was the cheife ministerer of their oathes of aleagance, to the vpright man or whole assembly of rogues, because that he being at their admittance, should lightlie be at their end making, so that he was as it were an Ouerseer of their whole liues, both begīning, continuance, and ending: and could testifie at their ends whether they had done true seruice, in that their togish vocation whereunto they were admitted.

There was not through the whole weeke any purse cut, but his malefactions Gentleman, was at the account making of their booties or praies, and cheife sharer aboue all the maister cutpurses about the towne, say what they could or do what they could: For if he had bin neuer so litle crest, in his beastly worships humor, by any of the trade, vnlesse it were a great chance, either he should be abridged of the libertie of roguing, or els through his meanes come to be promoted to his owne proper power, for he would bewray and appeach all the doings of such as liked him not.

No cheating bargaine, made either by coseners or gamsters vpon peor or silly men, neither any locke pickt or house broke open, but he was made acquainted with it, els was their oath broken, and for breach thereof, such offenders lightly in lewe of their breaking of the same, either promoted to the gallowes, or els betrayed by him, and throngh his meanes to the punishment prouided for them according to the desert of their offence, or eis

cleane shut out of the order. The which if any maister cutpurse, had but presumed further then his authoritie, and had prayed or seazed vpon the booties of any cutpurs or slaue, who was to doe seruice to those of higher power, if the partie wronged had but made way to Tendance, for so he was called, he should be sure to be heard and haue remedie for his wrongs: or if any of the inferior sort had neglected any part of their duties, the which (by their oath at their stealing or admittance into the order of Rogues) they were tied vnto, They were all Subiect to the sentence which Tendance should pronounce against them, and in daunger of such penalties, as by the generall consent of their whole Fraternitie had before time bene established.

No whore or young strumpet could be admitted to be Doxis or Dels, or receiue any dignitie or vocation without consent of Tendance, nor none be (broken of the vpright man or maister Rogue) as their order is, vnlesse by Tendance his discretiō it might be thought be fitting. beggers or idle Roges, or any such, might not be admitted into the lazie roging order, but must first be brought before Tendance, to the end he might allow of their proceedings, either old or young. Besides, be had all the whole vniuersall prorogatiue in euery perticuler, the ordinances established, for the vpholding and supporting of the totall fraternitie of Rogues.

But whether the fault were in the bad termes or in the want which ouercrowed mens purses at their coming to the termes through yt dearth and hardnes which was imposed vpon men of the Countrie, or any priuate falshood-were wrought among his inferiours, by detaining of the right which he should haue from him. I know not But as it is hard with honest men, it seemes it was not beneficiall to him: for he was vrged to leaue his

superioritie, and bend to a more inferiour course, for he was driuen by compulsion, to walke markets, faires, thronges & crowds, & become accountable to him selfe of his owne gettings as well as of others: for either he became to be a base minded cutpurse for need▪ or els he did it to prie into the dissimulations of other of his vocation.

But he was cheifly moued to it by an other consort which was a seller of Olde dublets who as his cheife Counsellor, peri waded him to make triall (as it seemed) of the benifit which might growe or arise in places of resort through the cunning deuices which might be put in practise: which Olde dublets hauing obtained at his hands, and procuring him to make him his Ceequall in sharing, practised to effect as well as Tendance, and to be ayding at his hand. The one to accomplish the full prosie and insight in to the art of Roguing, the other to hans the commoditie which might ensue of the benifit which other Rogues should make, which were to practise that occupation.

Which commoditie, Olde dublets found sweet, by reason of the monthlie bargaines which he purchased with his misbegotten stocke: for euery offender, which Tendāce should think hardlie of, was sure to be trussed, specially such as had any good suits to their hacks, which through Tendance his meanes, Olde dublets had the forsaking of, and had thereof very good pennieworths for reasonable monie.

This resolusion incouraged these two proggers to persist in their calling, inso much that of late (beside the other sort) Leaden hall, Cheapside, Newgat-market, nor any other place of meeting as Westminster-hall or any such places of assembly, was voyte or desittute of the companie of these two, the Captain and Liestenant of


the whole band.

So that vpon a time, Tendance making tryall to shew his cunning ouer a purse, which was somthing dangerous and hard to come by without suspition, suddenly was taken with the manner? and lawfully being thereof detected, was committed into the hands of such as might commaund him, as he before had done others. And imediatly after, whether for greife or for greedines of cempante, I know not, But Oldedublets through his cunning, purchased leane to become Chamberfellow with Tendance in Newgate, where like good companions, they passed a small time away together, And being called by the reuerend Iudges and Maiestrats of the land, they could scarcely answer their Faults with honestie, wherefore they were adiudged meretoriously, to endure that which their deserts desired: and in fine, hauing the sentence of condemnation pronounced against them, they both louingly ended in a hempen friendship.

Hereby may be seene the profits and fruites which may be gathered through the falsenes, and vndoing of others: the odiousnes of such which through hope of benifit will ioyne with others in ye practising of anothers hurt, and the fall which manie a one hath for want of grace, though they haue neuer so manie, nor so good examples giuen them. Wherefore I pray God of his mercie, to amend in euery one, that which is amisse, & giue all men grace to eschew the way which wil bring a man to his end before his time.
