A BRIEFE DISCOVRSE OF TWO most cruell and bloudie murthers, committed bothe in Worcestershire, and bothe happening vnhappily in the yeare. 1583.

The first declaring, how one vnnaturally murdered his neighbour, and afterward buried him in his Seller.

The other sheweth, how a woman vnlawfully following the deuillish lusts of the flesh with her seruant, caused him very cruelly to kill her owne Husband.

Imprinted at London. by Roger Warde, dwelling neere Holburne Conduit at the signe of the Talbot. 1583.


To the reader.
THat the dayes of daunger and iniquitie are as now, not onelie our own fraile nature maye sufficiently certefie vs: but also the irksome examples, and vnwonted prodigious spectacles, euery day and houre (almost) apparant in our eies, may driue fro vs anye doubt to the contrarie. For if we enter into examination with our selues, aswell of our negligence of duetie to our God, as also our lacke of looue to our neighbour: wee shall finde that we are not, neither doo as the holie Euangelist wisheth vs, when he saith: Beloued, let vs looue one an other, for loue commeth of God, and euerie one that looueth, is borne of God, and knoweth God: But he that loueth not, knoweth not God, for God is Loue. And I find in Ecclesiasticus these words.

Three thinges reioyce me, and by them am I beautified before God and men: the vnitie of Brethren, the looue of neighboures, & a man and wife that agree together. Howe then can we otherwise iudge, but that we are in that yron and crooked age, wherein iniquitie should vaunt & shew her selfe: beeing made acquainted euery day with the lack of that heauenly ornament, Loue, the memory thereof almost defaced and puld vp by the roote, in so greeuous and vehement manner, that it may be hardly sayde to haue anie abiding amonge vs at all. And that I may not wade into abundaunce of matter, without due proofe to affirme anye thinge alleadged: I praye you looke into these Tragicall accidents following, whiche, albeit they carrye terrour sufficient, to forwarne the vnnaturall children of this worlde: yet daylie doo fresh enormities spring vp, able (had nature so agreed) to vrge the verie bowelles of the earth, to yeelde foorth fearefull acclamations agaynst vs. Shall I with-hold to say, that the father hath not procured the death of his owne naturall

childe: and the childe risen in like occasion agaynst his Father? Shall I not saye, the Husband hath abrydged the lyfe of his espoused Wife and mate, & she likewise committed the like vnnaturall acte on her Husband? Hath not one Brother murdered the other, one neighbour killed the other, one frend been false to the other, yea, & very nature turned agaynst it self? These vnlooked for examples are daily before vs, so that wee cannot shun the sight & hearing of the, & yet shal we passe them ouer with a slender or lighte regarde? Oh my freends, doo we not see the heauens frowne? And why? Because the sinnes of the earth hath fumed vp into the nosethrils of the Almightie, with a sauour so yrksome & vnsufferable: that he cannot in Iustice, but strike stiff-necked Pharao, with the rodde of his furie, yea, and bereaue the earth of those beneuolent blessinges, which he hath suffered it so quietly to enioye, and so great abuse rendered vnto him for them. Can wee reprooue the Father for disinheriting his Sonne, when hee seeeth his dealynges


such as deserueth nothing? can we blame that maister, who thrusteth his seruaunt foorth of his doores, when he beholdeth his behauiour vnworthy of house-room? Euen so, can wee otherwise say, that our heauenly father dooth vnworthily cast vs out of his fauour, when in steade of looue, we render him hatred, for dutie, negligence, and for all his good gifts, vngratious thanks? Oh no, let vs not enter into suche questioning with our selues, for if we looke into our iniquitie, & thē into his mercie, our daily falling from one sinne into an other, and his so long fatherly forbearance: we wil then quicklie returne fro the flesh pots of Aegypt, and from our owne filthie and odious vomit, and euerie one of vs say hartelie with the Psalmist: I do knowe mine owne wickednes, and my sinne is euer against me. And likewise confesse with Danyel the Prophet:[4] To thee (O Lord God) belongeth mercie and forgiuenes, for wee haue gone away from thee, and haue not harkened to thy voyce, wherby we might walke in thy lawes which thou hast appointed for vs. It is high


time that we should thus consider with our selues, if wee but looke into the present occasions offered vnto vs, and mark how busie the deuil is to woork mas vtter ouerthrow: the rather by 2. greeuous & horrible mischances which hath lately happened, wherin may be seene, how needefull it is for vs to call for the grace of our heauenly father, to strengthen vs with such assured confidence, that we fall not likewise into such euil, but may shew such hartie repentance of our former offences, as the verie wicked by our good example, maye bee drawne to glorify the eternall GOD.

 A most cruel and bloody Murder, comitted on New-yeares euen last past, beeing the last day of December, 1582. in the town of Esam in Worcester shire, by one Thomas Smith a town dweller, vpon his neighbor Robert Greenoll, who when he had cruelly murdered him, made a graue in his Seller, & there buried him.
IN Esam, a hansome market Town in Worcester shire well known, dwelled two youngmen, who by their vsual trade were Mercers, as in yt country they call thē so yt sell all kind of wares: the one of them they called Robert Grenoll, a bacheler, & of such an honest conuersatio, as he was not onely wel belooued in the Towne where he dwelt, but also of those who had euerie market day accesse thither, for their needfull necessaries, so yt he was as wel customed as any occupier in ye towne. The other was called Thomas Smith, of indifferent welth likewise, & son to one of the most substatial mē in ye towne, & ioyned in mariage


with a gentlewoman of very good parentage: so yt he likewise was well thought on of most & least. This Thomas Smith, seeing Greenoll haue so good vtteraunce for his wares, and so well esteemed in ech companierif not vppon this cause alone, though chiefly it bee accounted so, he began to enuy the prosperous estate of him beeing his neighbour and frend, and the Deuill so farre ruled the course of his enuious intent, as nothing wold suffise the desire thereof, but onely making away of Greenoll by death, which though hee had no reason for, yet suche was the perswasion of the euill spirite with him. Manie platformes were laid, a thousad deuises canuazed ouer by this lewde man, which way he might woork the death of his frendly neighbor: at last as the Deuill wanteth no occasions to helpe man forward to his own destruction, so he presented Smith with a fit oportunity, whereby he might execute ye sum of his bloody will. And as the repining at our neighbors prosperity, is not onely monstrous, but a denilish nature.


So had this man compassed a monstruous and moste deuilish deuise, the verie conceite whereof is able to astonish the heart of a Iewe, or Mahomitans recreant, and thus it was as followeth.
On New-yeares euen laste past, this Thomas Smith longinge and desiringe the end of his vnnaturall will, bearing the image of a frendlie countenaunce in the face, but the verie perfecte shape of Iudas tretcherie in his hart, inuited his neighbour Greenoll to his house, where he promised to bestowe a quart of wine and an apple vpon him: saying further, they woulde passe awaye the Euening pleasauntly in frendlie talke and drinking together. Greenoll beeing one desirous of eche mans frendship, and much the rather of his beeing his neighbour, and one of the same trade himself was: nothing mistrusting the villanous treaso, hyd vnder so smooth a show of neighberhood, gaue him thanks, promising to come to him at night, & not to faile him. This pleased well the bloud-thirsting man, so that home he wēt to determine


the Instrument to doo the deede withal, & then downe into his Seller hee goes, to dispose a place wherein he might conuay the bodie when hee had slayne him: there he digged a graue about sixe or seuen ynches deepe, thinking there to burie him that he should neuer be founde. It drew toward night, when as a play was cryed about the Towne, whereto both old and young did hastely repaire: & this Smith hauing a boye that serued him in his Shop, fearing leaste the boye shoulde perceiue anie thinge, gaue hym money, and bad him goe fee the Play: & bring him the whole report of the matter. This he did in the presence of Greenol, who was come according to his promisse to keepe him companie: & the boye hauing fetcht a quarte of wine and Apples as his maister willed him, ran merily to see the Play, leauing Greenoll & his maister by the fire pleasauntly talking. They twoo thus sitting alone, did drinke to ech other verie familiarly, tyll at last, Greenol stouping to turne an apple in the fire, a fit time that Smith espied


to accomplish his will: who taking an yron pestell, wherewith hee vsed to beate his spice in the morter, and which he had laid by him ready for the nonce, with this pestel (as Greenoll stouped to turne the Apple) he gaue him twoo suche mightie blowes on the heade, as hee fell down backward to the ground, yeelding foorth a verie pittifull and lamentable groane. Smith hearing him to giue such a woful groane (as himselfe said to me, when I came to him into the prison) began to enter into some sorrowfulnes for the deede, wishinge that hee mighte recouer againe: but when he perceiued he had smote him so sore, that ther was no hope of his recouerie, he tooke the pestel againe, and gaue him three or four more cruell strokes about the heade, whiche made him to lie trembling and shaking in such pittifull manner, as would haue made a hearte of Adamant to melte in griefe: for to beholde how life and death made strife together, life for the sweetenes, to resist death his bitternes, wyth many a gaspe for breath, with strugling

and often folding his armes together: thus laye this Innocent and martyred coarse. Not suffised with this, the bloody murderer taketh a knife, and therewith cut the throate of Greenol, but as Smith himselfe saith, he did not cut the wezad, but pierced the skin somwhat: and then would haue stabbed him to the heart wt the knife, but missed and smote him on the shoulder blade, whervpon he strooke againe, and then indeede pierced him to the heart: what a cruell and monstrous harde heart had hee, that coulde endure this rufull Stratageme? When hee had suffised his bloody mind, vpon his freend and loouing neighbour, hee drewe him down into his Seller, where his graue was readie prepared for him, and there buried him: which beeing doone, he smoothed it ouer so finelye with a Trowell that Playsterers vse, so that it could be hardly discerned, and because he would woorke the surer, hee tooke Bayles of Flax which laye in his Seller, and so shaked the shellinges thereof on ye floore in all places, as no one coulde saye,


(but he that knewe it) where the graue was, setting likewise Drifats & Chests ouer it, so that he iudged it should neuer be found. Afterward he went and tooke water, wherewith he washed and dryed his house so clean in euerie place, yt one drop of blood could not be espied: behold howe subtilly hee wente to woorke, but God, who in no case will haue bloudie murder hidde, preuented all his craitie pollicies.
Smith hauing thus plaide his tyrannous pageant, & hauing taken Greenols keyes of his shop from him, wente thither and likewise robbed it, bringing a great deale of the goods from thēre into his owne house. But this by the way is to bee considered, that in the Towne of Euesam, all the time of Christmas, and at no other time, there is watch & ward kept, that no misorder or il rule be committed in the Towne, which doubtlesse is a verie good and commendable order. To one of the watchmen had Smith giuen this watch-woord, See and see not: which was onelie to this ende, that hee


might goe by them vnseene, when he caryed the goods out of Greenols shop to his owne house. On the morrowe when it was knowen that Greenols shop was robde, question was made thorowe the Towne, who was abroade that nighte that might bee suspected, because of the Playe that was in the Towne: vppon which demaund, the watchman to who this message was sente, declared howe Thomas Smith was abroad somewhat late, and sent him this watch-word, See and see not, but was meant thereby hee could not gather. Vpon this, Smith was sent for before the chiefe of the Towne, and demaunded if he knew where Grenol was, for that it was reported he had beene in his house ouer-night, and since that time no man could tell anie tidinges of him: moreouer his shop was robbed as that night, and that Smith beeing abroad, and sending such a by-woord See and see not, to one of the watchmen, yt was a shrewd presumption against him to bee somewhat faultie in the matter. So after his aunswere, that hee knewe


not where Greenol was become, and by his late walkinge and woordes sente to the watchman, no harme was meante: they said that they would goe to searche his house, whervpon Smith aunswered, that his house they could not as then see. because his wife was at Kinges Norto, a Towne not farre thence, and she had the keyes of his house: but (quoth hee) if you will search my Seller you maye, and so tooke the keyes from his girdle and threw thē vnto them. Then went certayne that were appointed, to search Smiths Seller, whence they were comming again without finding such matter as they looked for: till by chaunce one of them happened to espye a little peece of earth, as it were new broken out of the grounde, lying vnder the nethermoste staire, which he taking vp, said it were good to see where any earth was latelye broken there about, for if they chaunced to finde the place, some thing might come to light woorth ye beholding. Vpon this councel they began all to looke earnestlye about the Seller,


if they could finde the place where that Earth had beene broken vp. At last they remooued the Chests & Dryfats, where they felt the ground more soft then all the rest: which caused them (suspecting somewhat) to fall to digging, where presently they found Greenoll buryed, not past six or seuen inches deepe, and looking vppon him, beheld how cruelly and vnnaturally he had beene murdered. These newes brought to the Baylifs of ye towne, where Smith was kept till they returned: not without great lamentation for this bloody deed, of all that knew or heard thereof, he was sent to Worcester Gaole, wher he remained till such time as the crueltie of his vnneighbour like deede might be determined by Iustice. When ye Assises came, ye apparaunt truth of his offence layd before the Iudges, he was condemned to the death, which he suffered very lately since: but yet by the earnest intreatie of his Freendes, who were of great wealth and credit, the seueritie of the lawe was not altogether ministred, for


wheras he should haue beene hanged in chains, he had more fauour shewd him, he was hanged to death, and after ward buryed.
Thus my Freendes, haue you heard the true discourse of this most bloody & monstrous act, accordinge as in great greefe, with like sorowe for the deed, him selfe dyd vtter it, both vnto me, and diners other being present, Preachers, and Gentlemen. And truly thus much I must say, for the ma truely he was both a hansome and well featured a Youngman, as one shall lightly soe, his Father as good wealth, and one of the chiefs in the Towne of Esam, and hee had beene marryed not past eight weeks by crrbible reporte, before he did the deed, to a Gentls woma of very good Parentage, who no donbt remaineth in great greef for this vnlooked for mischaunce, she being merty abroade with her: Freends, when her Hasoand at home conunitted this cruell deed: I commit it to the Iudgement of all verfuous Women, what a groefe it was to her, when first


she heard of these vnhappy newes: But heere I may not make a final pause, for that an other horrible and wicked deed, committed in Iune last 1582. in the same Sheire, constraineth me to speak somewhat thereof: and for that I beheld the death of one of ye partyes, I am the more willing to passe it ouer in a breefe discourse.

An other most cruel and bloody Murder, committed in the same shire the same yeere as the afore-said.
AT a place called Cothridge, about four myles distant fro Worcester, dwelt an honest Hubsband-ma, named Thomas Beast, one very well reputed among his Neighbours, aswell for his house keeping, as also for his Godly and honest behauiour. This afore named Thomas Beast, kept a hansome Yongman to his seruant, called Christopher Tomson, to whome (by the wicked instigation


and prouocation of ye Deuill) the good Wife of ye house vsed far better affection, then to her owne Husband.
Often times they would carnally acquaint thē selues together, till lust had gotten so much power of the Woman: as she began altogether to loathe and dislike her Husband, and preferre the fleshly dealings of her new companion so much, as she must needs seeke & practise the death of her Husband.

The Neighbours not suspecting, but credibly perceiuing, the common and vnhonest behauiour of this wicked woman & her lusty Yonker: began so much to dislike thereof, as if came at last to her Husbads eares, who as wel to slake the rumor of the Prople, as also the pleasure these two vnhonestly enioied: gaue his Seruaunt warning to anoyd his howse, who packed vp his clothes, and was departing: But that this filthie desirous Woman, so much preuayled in the matter with her Husband. yt her Companio departed not, but taryed still. At length, so great grew the hatred

of this harlot against her Husband, as she must needs haue Christopher her sweet dallying Freend, to dispatch the life of him, wherto a great while he would not consent, perswading her stil from it; so much as in him lay. But it grew to such an issue at the last, as she must needs haue her will, and Christopher must not deny her thereof, for she coniured him by the looue that he bare her, and if any way he would witnesse his affection vnto her, to manifest it in the killing her Husband, for (quoth she) with mony and freends I will warrant thee to saue thy life, and then thou and I will liue merrily together. Oh most horrible and wicked Womon, a woma, nay a deuill: stop your eares you chaste & graue matrones, whome Gods feare, dutie, true looue to your Husbands, and vertue of your selues hath so beautified as nothing ta be more odious vnto you, then yt such a gracelesse strumpet should be found, so much to dishonor your noble sexe. Well, when neither intreatie, nor all ye faire meanes Christopher

could vse, to subuert this deuilish desire: sollemnely at the eating of a Posset, the night before he did the deede, he promised her faithfully, to accoplish her will. On ye morrowe when his Maister was in his feeld at the plow, he takes a long pike staffe on his necke, wherwith he would goe doo the deed: but his wicked Mistresse missiking the weapon, saying that it was nothing fit for the purpose, deliuered him a Forrest Bil, which she her self had made very sharp for ye same infent, and said: Be sure to hit him right, and thou shalt speed him I warrant thee, so that he shal neuer tell who did hurt him. Christopher taketh this Bil on his back, & comes into the feeld to his Maister, where he began quarrelingly to say vnto him after this manner. Seeing you are willing I shall serue you no loger, giue me that which is my dutie & so fare ye wel, with other woords of quarrell that he vsed about ye sum of the mony, but his Maister graūted him so much as he demaunded, and turning from him, to open his pursse to
Unnumbered page

giue him the mony, Christopher strooke at him with the Bil in such cruel manner, yt there he killed him. After the deed was done, he fled, but not farre before he was takē, when presently he exclaimed on his Mistres, how she was cause yt he comitted the deed: wherupon they were both sent to Worcester Gaole, where very often shee would sollicite her sweet Christopher, with mony, hand kerchers, nosegaies, and such like amorous and loouing tokens, and he besotted in his naughtie affection, would shape all his conditions to please her, the more to witnes his dissolute folly, he made a triumphe (as it were) in carrying a locke of her haire about him, & would sit kissing and delighting in any token she sent him: besyde, one day he desired the Iaylor, that if he were a Man, or one that regarded the extreme afflictions of those, whom the tirany of looue possessed, that he wold doo so much for him, to rip foorth the hart of him, & cleauing the same in sunder, he should there beholde the liuely Image of his

sweet mistresse, to whom (as the theefest Iewell he had) hee destred him to make a present of that pretions token.
When time came, that Iustice should determine of these twaine, beeing worthily found guiltie and condemned: shee was adiudged (for an example to all lighte and lasciuious women) that shee should bee burned, & Christopher, to bee carried to the place where he did ye deed: there to be first hagrd dead, & afterward to be hanged vp againe in chaines. The Assises beeing holden at Esam, shee was laide vpon an hurdle, & so drawne to the place of Execution, which was without the lown: & there beeing boūd to ye stake, & the fire made to burne about her, her wertched carkas was soone dissolued into athes. Christopher Tomson, he was carried back again to Worcester, where he likewise (for an example to all lewd liuers) was drawne on an hurdle about the Eittie, & so conuayed to Cothridge, where according to his iudgment he hangeth in chaynes.

    FINIS.