A full an True Acount of a most Barbarous and Bloody Murther, Committed by Edward Williams, ON THE Body of Mr. Hinton, At the Windsor-Castle in Green-Dragon Court, near Charing-Cross, on Thursday last: With the occasion of their Quarrel, and manner of the Murther; and how the Coroners Inquest brought it in wilful Murther, and committed Mrs. Hinton to the Gate-House, last Night for being Accessary to the same.
MR. Hinton formerly a Trooper in the Kings Guards, and lately removed
from the Windsor-Castle at Charing-Cross to the Windsor-Castle
in Green-Dragon-Court in the Strand, where he had kept an Ale-House
for about Two Months, and having been some Days out of Town on some
extraordinary Business, leaving his Wife to mannage affairs in his absence,
but returning home on Wednesday was Sevennight last, found one Edward
Williams in his House, and (as some say) too familliar with his Wife, or at
least took too much command upon him in his absence, and to agravate the
matter his Wife was at the same time disorder'd in Drink: Whereupon high
and provoking Word; being given on both sides, Mr. Hinton, (tho at
other times a very moderate and peacable Man) having some Tobacco Pipes
in his Hand, threw them at his Wife, which occasion'd Williams, (who was
then present) to draw his Sword, but Hinton's Maid in vindication of her
Master stept'd between, and endeavourd to keep them asunder, and had in
all probability perform'd that good Office had not her Mistress thrust her
aside; at which time (as we are inform'd) Williams taking the oppertunity,
made a pass at Mr. Hinton, and such an unfortunate one, that the point of
the Sword run into his Throat or Gullet, and (as some say) had repeated his
violence upon him had he not been prevented by Neighbours coming in; but
notwithstanding all the endeavours that could be used either by Surgeons or
others, he languish'd from Wednesday the 30th of October till Thursday the
7th of November and then Dyed of his Wound at which time Williams the
Murtherer made his Escape, and not before, having (as we are credibly inform'd)
Din'd with Hinton's Wife several times since he had given him his
mortal Wound, and once since he Dyed; which behaviour of hers towards
the Murtherer of her own Husband, has been much taken notice of by her
Neighbours, and no less reflected upon by her Husbands Relations.

Whereupon the Coroners Inquest Sat yesterday on the view of his Body, and after
having serch'd his Wound, and examin'd the Maid Servant concerning the Occasion, and
Circumstance of the aforesaid tragical Actiton, who gave a large Account of each Particular,
relating as well to the neglegence of her Mistris, as the rashness of Mr Williams, after having sereously and Deliberately considered the matter; and brought it in wil
Murther. Mrs. Hinton, Wife to the Deceased, was committed to the Gate-House last
night being Friday the 8th of November, 1700, on Suspition of being accessary to the
murther of her Husband. But Edward Williams the principal Murtherer, is not yet to be
found, notwithstanding the great Search that is made after him.
LONDON, Printed for William Alkin, near Charing Cross, 1700.