A full and true account of a most horrid and barbarous murder committed yesterday, April 24th, in St. James’s House, by Eliz. Smith, upon the body of her own male child, by running of a penknife into its Heart, and thrusting it into a hole of the cieling in a garrat. 
With her examination and confessions before the Worshipful Justice Chambell t Whitehall, and commitment to Newgate.
Notwithstanding the daily warnings given by persons that have come to untimely ends, for their cruel murders, &c, yet their still remains most unaccountable wretches among us, who act worse than the brute beasts; a horrid instance of which we have in the following true relation.  
Elizabeth Smith (a maid servant to Mr. Samuel Towers, one of her majesties master yeomens of the wine-cellar, and living in St. james’s house) who not have the fear of God before her eyes (tho’ under the roof of Justice and pure Charity) play’d the harlot, and was got with child, but carry’d it so cunningly that she was not much suspected, till length of time shew’d her baseness to some that mistrusted her to be with child; and observing her to be verily ill last Saturday, and to keep her bed, the gentlewoman charg’d her with being with child, and ask’d her whether she was marry’d or not; and she answer’d that she was not marry’d nor with child, she scorn’d her words, and the like. Upon which the good gentlewoman withdrew out of the garrat where she lay, but not satisfied with her answer, believing her to be in travail, by some symptoms she saw in her, and her still continuing to keep her bed; she thereupon yesterday morning, being the 24th of this instant April, 1711, divulged her opinion of the matter to others of the court, and they agreed to send for a midwife to her search her; who doing her office, declar’d the said pretended maid-servant to be newly deliver’d, tho she utterly deny’d it, and impudently reviled the gentlewoman when they ask’d her what was become of the child. In short, they sent for a constable, and making a search about the garrat, in the odd hole in the cieling they found the poor innocent babe, wrapt up in a pettycoat of the inhumane mothers, who with a penknife had stabb’d it to the heart, and they finding her well enough to go abroad, carryed her before the worshipful Justice Chambel at his house in Whitehall, where, upon due examination, she confess’d the fact, but would not directly declare the father 
Of the child, but gave some hints as if a certain gentleman was the person, and the officers of the court are of the same opinion, he having had several bastards of late laid to his charge. The murder appearing plain, by her own confession, the justice ordered her Mittimus to be made, and she was committed yesterday the 24th instant to Newgate, in order to be Try’d at the next ensuing sessions.
Printed by R. Newcomb, in Wine-Office-Court, Fleet-street, 1711.
Where may be had the London Gazette printed in the Tear 1666; giving an account of the tryals and condemnation of 8 fanaticks for the contriving the burning of the city of London. 
