A Full and True RELATION OF THE Examination and Confession OF W. Barwick and E. Mangall, OF TWO HORRID MURDERS,
One Committed by William Barwick upon his Wife being with Child, near Cawood in Yorkshire, upon the 14th. of April last: As likewise a full Account how it came to be discovered by an Apparition of the Person MURDER'D.

The Second was committed by Edward Mangall, upon Elizabeth Johnson alias Ringrose, and her Bastard Child, on the 4th. of September last, who said he was tempted thereto by the Devil.

ALSO Their Trials and Convictions before the Honorable Sir John Powel, Knight, one of Their Majesties Justices, at the Assizes holden at York, on the 16th. of September, 1690.

October the 7. Published according to Order, 1690.

AS MURDER is one of the Greatest Crimes that Man can be guilty of, so is it no less Strangely and Providentially discovered, when privately committed. The foul Criminal believes himself secure, because there was no Witness of the Fact. Not considering that the Alseeing Eye of Heaven beholds his conceal'd Iniquity, and by some means or other bringing it to Light, never permits it to go Unpunished. And indeed so certainly does the Revenge of God pursue the Abominated MURDERER that when Witnesses are wanting of the Fact, the very Ghost of the Murdered-Parties cannot rest quiet in their Graves, till they have made the Detection themselves. Of this we are now to give the Reader, Two Remarkable Examples that lately happened in York-shire; And no less Signal for the Truth of both Tragedies, as being confirmed by Trial of the Offenders, at the last Assizes held for that County.

The First of these Murders was committed by William Barwick, upon the Body of Mary Barwick, his Wife, at the same time big with Child. What were the Motives that induc'd the Man to do this Horrid Fact, does not appear by the Examination of the Evidence, or the Confession of the Party: Only it appeared upon his Trial that he had got her with Child, before he Married her: And 'tis very probable that being then constrained to Marry her, he grew weary of her; which was the the Reason he was so willing to be rid of her, tho'

he ventur'd Body and Soul to accomplish his Design.
The Murder was committed upon Palm-Monday, being the Fourteenth of April last, about Two of the Clock in the Afternoon, at what time the said Barwick having drill'd his Wife along till he came to a certain Close, within sight of Cawood-Castle, where he found the Conveniency of a Pond, he threw her by force into the Water, and when she was Drown'd, and drawn forth again by himself upon the Bank of the Pond, had the Cruelty to behold the Motion of the Infant, yet warm in her Womb. This done, he conceal'd the Body, as it may readily be suppos'd among the Bushes, that usually encompass a Pond, and the next night, when it grew duskish, fetching a Hay-spade from a Rick that stood in the Close, he made a Hole by the side of the Pond, and there slightly Buried the Woman in her Cloaths.

Having thus dispatched two at once, and thinking himself secure, because (unseen) he went the same day to his Brother-in-Law, one Thomas Lofthouse of Rufforth, within Three Miles of York, who had Married his drown'd Wifes Sister, and told him he had carried his Wife to one Richard Harrison's House in Selby, who was his Unkle, and would take care of her. But Heaven would not be so deluded, but rais'd up the Ghost of the Murder'd Woman to make the Discovery. And therefore it was that upon the Easter-Tuesday following, about Two of the Clock in the Afternoon, the fore-mention'd Lofthouse, having occasion to Water a Quickset Hedge, not far from his House, as he was going for the Second Pail-full, an Apparition went before him in the Shape of a Woman, and soon after sat down upon a Rising Green Grass-Plat, right over against the Pond: He walk'd by her as he went to the Pond; and as he return'd with his Pail from the Pond, looking side-ways to see whether she continu'd in the same place, he found she did; and that she seem'd to Dandle something in her Lap, that look'd like a White-Bag (as he thought) which he did not observe before. So soon as he had emptied his Pail, he went into his Yard, and stood still to try whether he could see her again; but she was vanish'd.

In his Information, he says, That the Woman seem'd to be habited in a Brown Colour'd Petticoat, Wastecoat, and a White Hood; such a one as his Wifes Sister usually wore; and that her Countenance look'd extream Pale and Wan, with her Teeth in sight, but no Gums appearing; and that her Physiognomy was like to that of his Wifes Sister, who was Wife to William Barwick.

But notwithstanding the Gastliness of this Apparition, it seems it made so little Impression in Lofthouse's Mind, that he thought no more of it, neither did he speak to any Body concerning it, till the same Night as he was at his Family Duty of Prayer, that that Apparition return'd again to his Thoughts, and discompos'd his Devotion; So that after he had made an end of his Prayers, he told the whole Story of what he had seen to his Wife: Who laying Circumstances together, immediately inferr'd, that her Sister was either Drown'd, or otherwise Murder'd, and desir'd her Husband to look after her the next day, which was the Wednesday in Easter-Week. Upon this, Lofthouse recollecting what Barwick had told him of his carrying his Wife to his Unkle at Selby, repairs to Harrison before-mentioned, but found all that Barwick had said to be false; for that Harrison had neither heard of Barwick nor his Wife, neither did he know any thing of them. Which notable Circumstance, together with that other of the Apparition increas'd his Suspicions to that degree, that now concluding his Wifes Sister was Murdered, he went to the Lord Mayor of York; and having obtained his Warrant, got Barwick apprehended: who was no sooner brought before the Lord Mayor, but his own Conscience then accusing him, he acknowledged the whole Matter, as it has been already related, as it appears by his Examination and Confession herewith Printed: To which are also annex'd the Informations of Lofthouse, in like manner taken before the Lord Mayor of York, for a further Testimony and Confirmation of what is here set down.

On Wednesday the Sixteenth of September 1690, The Criminal William Barwick was brought to his Trial before the Honorable Sir John Powel, Knight, one of the Judges of the Northern Circuit, at the Assizes holden at York, where the Prisoner pleaded not guilty to his Indictment: But upon the Evidence of Thomas Lofthouse, and his Wife, and a Third Person, That the Woman was found Buried in her Cloaths in the Close by the Pond-side, agreeable to the Prisoner's Confession, and that she had several Bruises on her Head, occasioned by the Blows the Murderer had given her to keep her under Water: and upon Reading the Prisoner's Confession before the Lord Mayor of York, attested by the Clerk, who wrote the Confession, and who swore the Prisoner's owning and signing it for Truth, he was found Guilty, and Sentenced to death, and afrerwards ordered to be hang'd in Chains.

All the Defence which the Prisoner made, was only this, That he was threatned into the Confession that he had made, and was in such a Consternation, that he did not know what he said or did. But then it was sworn by Two Witnesses, that there was no such thing as any Threatning made use of; but that he made a Free and Voluntary Confession, only with this Addition at first; That he told the Lord Mayor, he had sold his Wife for Five Shillings: But not being able to name either the Person or the Place where she might be produc'd, that was look'd upon as too frivolous to out-weigh Circumstances, that were Proofs too apparent.

The Information of Thomas Lofthouse, of Rufforth, taken upon Oath the Twentyfourth Day of April 1690,
WHO sayeth and deposeth, That one William Barwick, who lately Married this Informant's Wifes Sister came to this Informant's House, about the Fourteenth instant, and told this Informant, he had carried his Wife to one Richard Harrison's House in Selby, who was Unkle to him, and would take care of her; and this Informant hearing nothing of the said Barwick's Wife, his said Sister-in-Law, immagined he had done her some mischief, did Yesterday go to the said Harrison's House in Selby, where he said he had carried her to; And the said Harrison told this Informant, he knew nothing of the said Barwick, or his Wife, and this Informant doth verily believe the said Barwick to have Murdered her;

Thomas Lofthouse.



Jurat die & Anno super dicto coram me,

S. Dawson, Mayor.

The Examination of the said William Barwick, taken the Day and Year above-said,
WHO sayeth and Confesseth, That he this Examinant, on Monday was Seventh Night. about Two of the Clock in the Afternoon, this Examinant was walking in a Close, betwixt Cawood and Wistow; and he farther sayeth, that he threw his said Wife into the Pond, where she was drown'd, and the day following towards the Evening, got a Hay-spade at a Hay-stake in the said Close, and made a Grave beside the said Pond, and Buried her;

William Barwick.



Exam. capt. die & Anno super dict. coram me,

S. Dawson, Mayor.

The Examination of William Barwick, taken the Twenty fifth day of April 1690,
WHO sayeth and confesseth, That he carried his Wife over a certain Wain-Bridge, called Bishopdike-bridge, betwixt Cawood and Sherburn; and within a Lane about One Hundred Yards from the said Bridge, and on the Left-hand of the said Bridge, he and his Wife went over a Stile, on the Left-hand of a certain Gate, entring into a certain Close, on the Left-hand of the said Lane; and in a Pond in the said Close, adjoyning to a Quickwood-hedge, did Drown his Wife, and upon the Bank of the said Pond, did Bury her: And further, that he was within sight of Cawood Castle, on the Left-hand; and that there was but one Hedge betwixt the said Close, where he Drown'd his said Wife, and the Bishopslates belonging to the said Castle;

William Barwick.



Exam. capt. die & Anno super dict. coram me,

S. Dawson, Mayor.

On Tuesday September the Seventeenth 1690, at York Assizes.
THomas Lofthouse of Rufforth, within Three Miles of York City, sayeth that on Easter Tuesday last, about Half an Hour after Twelve of the Clock, in the day time, he was Watering Quickwood, and as he was going for the second Pail, there appeared walking before him, an Appariton in the Shape of a Woman, soon after she sat down over against the Pond, on a Green-Hill, he walked by her as he went to the Pond, and as he came with the Pail of Water from the Pond, looking side-ways to see if she sat in the same Place, which he saw she did; and had on her Lap something like a White Bag, a dandling of it (as he thought) which he did not observe before: After he had emptied his Pail of Water, he stood in his Yard, to see if he could see her again; but could not: He says her Apparel was Brown Cloaths, Wastecoat and Petticoat, a White hood, such as his Wifes Sister usually wore, and her Face looked extream Pale, her Teeth in sight, no Gums appearing, her Visage being like his Wifes Sister, and Wife to William Barwick.

Signed Thomas Lofthouse.


THE Second was a Murder commited by one Edward Mangall, upon the Body of Elizabeth Johnson alias Ringrose, the Fourth of September last past, at a Place called King's Causey, near Adling-fleet, in the County of York. He had got her with Child, at lest as she pretended; and was brought to Bed of a Boy, which she called William, and laid him to Mangall's Charge, and required him to Marry her: which he refused at first to do; but afterwards pretending to make her his Wife, bid her go before him down Kings Causey, towards the Church, and he would follow her, as he did; but knock'd out her Brains in a Close by the Way, and at the same time, as was shrewdly suspected, Kill'd the Child.

This Mangall being Examined by Mr. William Mauleverer the Coroner confessed that he had Murder'd the Woman; but denied that he meddl'd with the Boy. And being ask'd why he Murder'd the Woman, he made answer that the Devil put him upon it; appearing to him in a Flash of Lightning, and directing him where to find the Club, wherewith he committed the Murder. So ready is the Devil with his Temptations, when he find a Tempter easie to work upon.

He was Convicted and found Guilty upon the Evidence of Ann Hinde, and his own Confession to the Coroner, as may be seen by the Information annexed; and was thereupon Sentenced to death, and order'd to be Hang'd in Chains, as Barwick was before him, he making no Defence for himself for so Foul and Horrid a Murder, but that he was tempted thereto by the Devil.


Informations taken upon Oath, September the 10th 1690.

The Information of Ann Hinde, Wife of James Hinde, of Adling-fleet, in the County of York, Husband-man, upon her Oath saith;
THat on Monday, the first of September, one Elizabeth Johnson, alias Ringrose, came to her House in the Evening, with a Child she called William; and the said Elizabeth the next Day told this Deponent, That the said Elizabeth was going to Gawthrope, in the County of Lincoln, to seek for one Edward Mangall, who had got her with that Child, to see if he would Marry her: Upon which this Deponent went with the said Elizabeth, to perswade him to Marry her; but he denied having any dealings with her. But this Deponent doth further Depose, That on the fourth of September, the said Edward came to this Deponents House, and asked for the said Elizabeth; if she were there she might serve a Warrant on him, if she had one, for he was going to Rawclyff, to consult his Friends about it; and after some private Discourse had betwixt the said Edward and the said Elizabeth, the said Elizabeth told this Deponent, that he said, The said Elizabeth might go down King's-Cawsey, and he would follow her, and Marry her: And this Deponent did see the said Elizabeth go down King's-Cawsey; and a little after this Deponent saw the said Edward also go down the King's-Cawsey; and after that, this Deponent did not see the said Elizabeth, nor the said Child till she saw them lye dead.

Ann Hinde.


Un. Coron. Commit. praedict.

Capt.10. die Septembris 1690,
By me W. Mauleverer.
THE Examination of Edward Mangall, upon the Murder of Elizabeth Johnson alias Ringrose, taken before me William Mauleverer Gent. one of the Coroners of Our Soveraign Lord and Lady King William and Queen Mary, &c.

THE said Edward Mangall did confess, that he did Murder the said Elizabeth Johnson alias Ringrose, upon the Fourth Day of September instant, in a Close nigh to King's Causey, he being asked the Reason, said the Devil put him upon it, appearing to him in a Flash of Lightning; but denied that he medled with William Johnson alias Ringrose the Child.

Taken the10th of September 1690.
By me W. Mauleverer, Coroner.
    FINIS.

LONDON, Printed for Isaac Cleave at the Star, next to Serjeants-Inn in Chancery-lane.