A Hellish Murder Committed by a French Midwife, On the Body of her HUSBAND, Jan. 27. 1687/8.

For which she was Arraigned at the Old-Baily, Feb. 22. 1687/8. and Pleaded GƲILTY.

And the Day following received Sentence to be BURNT.

LONDON, Printed for R. Sare, at Grays-Inn-Gate, and published by Randal Taylor, near Stationers-hall. 1688.

Introduction.
THE late Barbarous Murder of Denis Hobry, (what with Malice, Prejudice, Credulity and Mistake) has put more Freaks and Crotchets into the Heads and Minds of the Common People, then any Story of that size perhaps ever did in this World before: But as Fancy, Error and Invention, have No Bounds in the matter of Number and Variety, so with a respect to the Quality of These Extravagancies, it would be no less Frivolous, on the Other side, to Encounter the Passions, and the Dreams of the Multitude with Formalities of Councel and Reason: for the Exceptions are too Many to be taken Severally to pieces, and they are too Trivial (even all together) to be worth the while of a Serious Thought. And yet how Vain, and how Impossible soever, a Full, and a Distinct Answer to so many Spiteful and Groundless Shams and Misunderstandings, may appear to be; there is something yet to be done, methinks; (though but in a Complement to Common Curiosity and Satisfaction) and the shortest way of clearing all Difficulties, will be to Publish to the World a Plain and a Naked Narrative of this whole Affair; as it is Delivered, and set forth in the Enformations Themselves, that have been given in Evidence upon This Cause; which I can the better undertake, for, in regard that they have all pass'd through My Hands. This Course will settle all People Right, that have a Mind to be set Right; and there's no better way in Nature to Rectify the Misapprehensions of Things, than by setting forth Matter of Fact just as it WAS; which at the same time, serves to Prove unanswerably how it was NOT. Only a word or two of Introduction by the way.

Upon the first Rumour of this Horrible Murder, there were Two Journey-men Joyners taken up, and Committed, upon


Suspicion of having laid the Body where 'twas found; but they prov'd themselves upon Enquiry, to be very Honest Men. 'Tis true They passed that way; They were seen thereabouts; Witnesses Examin'd: and Unhappy Circumstances enow for a Ground of Jealousie: But afterwards, upon the Seizure of the Midwife, and unquestionable Proofs against her, (beside her Own and her Sons Confession) the Coroners Inquest Met, according to an Adjournment, and sat upon the Body, Feb. 8. 1687. where they acquitted Mary Potron, and the Two Joyners; but Mary Hobry (the Midwife) was found Guilty of the Murder of Denis Hobry, as Principal; and John Desermeau (the Midwifes Son) was found Accessary after the Fact.
At Hicks-Hall, Mary Hobry had a Bill found against her, Feb. 22. 1687. for Petty-Treason and Murder, as Principal; and on her Arraignment the same Day at the Old Baily, she Pleaded GUILTY; but the Court with all possible Tenderness, let her know the Danger and the Consequence of her Confession, and offer'd her yet the Liberty to Depart from her Plea, and take her Tryal, if she thought fit; but she still Persisted in her Confession.

There was, after this, Another Bill found at Hicks-Hall on the same Day, against Denis Favet, and John Favet, Frenchmen, and Brothers) as Accessories before and after the Fact; and likewise against John Desermeau (the Son of the said Midwife) as Accessory after the Fact.

Ʋpon their Tryal at the Old-Baily, they were All found NOT GUILTY: But the Matter had such a Face however, that the Court thought fit to put the Two Brothers to find Sureties for their Good Behaviour.

The Womans Confession has Prevented the Publick Notification of the Foulness of the Cause, that would otherwise have been made, by a Printed Account of the Tryal: So that it remains only to supply that Disappointment by True Copies of the Following Enformations, which would have been the Foundation at last (in case she had put her self upon her Defence) for the Court to Proceed upon.


Midd. & West.

The Enformation of James Richards of the Parish of St. Margarets Westminster, Victualler, taken upon Oath, Feb. 3. 1687/8.
SAITH, That this Enformant being in Company about Four or Five a Clock in the Afternoon, Yesterday, with Mr. Yard, and another Person; there was a Discourse about the Dead Body that was lately found; wherereupon Mr. Yard was saying, that there was a Friend of his missing, and that he was affraid, This was the Man; having heard his Wife Often say, that she would Murther him, or Dispatch him, or to that Effect. This Enformant thereupon putting it to the said Mr. Yard, if he could make good what he said; Whose Answer was, that he could make it good; Upon which, this Enformant advis'd the getting of an Officer to Apprehend the Woman; The Third Person Answering, that to Morrow-morning would be time enough. But this Enformant said, it was a Case would bear no Delay, and that therefore he was resolv'd to Enform with all speed; to which they Agreed: And this Enformant going then out of the Room, Mr. Yard follow'd, and told this Enformant, that the Thing was too true, and that the said Woman had told him as much; but Promised within some few Days to tell him more. Upon this, the Enformant got a Constable, and went as an Assistant to the Apprehending of the Woman, whom they found at a House in Phaenix-Alley, and so she was taken into Custody, and Committed.

James Richards

Jurat' Die & Anno supradict. coram me

Roger L'Estrange.

Midd. & West.

The Enformation of Philip Yard of St. Martins in the Fields, Cook, taken upon Oath, Feb. 3. 1687/8.
SAith, That this Enformant becoming known to the Family, and to the Person of Dennis Hobry in Paris, many Years since; and having of late been several times in his Company here in England, where his Wife (a Midwife) was present, became also known to the said Midwife, whom this Enformant hath heard within the Compass of Two Months last past (speaking upon a modest Recollection of his Memory) menacing and reviling the said Dennis Hobry more then Forty several times, Calling him Dog, Drunken Villain, and other the Fowlest Words of Reproche; And saying over and over upon several Occasions, I must kill him, and will kill him, though I be Hang'd for 't, speaking the Words in French, C'est un Chien; C'est un Yvrogne, &c. Il faut que Je le Tue, quoy que Je devrois estre pendue.

And saith particularly, That upon Thursday in the last Week, about Two or Three a Clock in the Afternoon, being at the House where her Daughter Lodges, she the said Midwife took occasion to fall into a Violent Passion against her Husband, and brake out into Passions of Threatning to Kill him, in manner as above recited.

And saith, That on the Day mentioned in the Paragraph next above, the Wife of Hobry, breaking into Violences of Discourse as abovesaid, desired this Enformant to take No Notice of any thing she had said, whatever should happen. This Enformant demanding, what she meant by that Thing that he was not to take Notice of: She reply'd, of her calling her Husband Ill Names, and the like.

And saith, That Three or four days after what is above-said, this Enformant went to the Lodgings of the said Hobry, and Ask'd where he was; they made Answer, they had not


seen him for several Days. This Enformant reflecting at that Time upon the Bloudy Menaces of this Woman toward her Husband, of the Thursday before; And that this Enformant could hear no Tydings of the said Hobry among All his Acquaintance; This Enformant had an Apprehension within himself, that she might have done him a Mischief.
On Wednesday Morning, being the Next Day, this Enformant went again to the Lodging of the said Hobry, to Enquire after him, and hearing no News of him yet, this Enformant Advis'd them to open the Door, for fear he might have carry'd some of the Goods into France. But the People of the House would not open the Door, because the Midwife that Lodg'd there had the Key.

This Enformant went the same Day to the Lodgings of the said Midwife's Daughter, where the Mother there waited for an Opportunity of speaking with her in Private, and took the Occasion at last to go out of the Lodgings with her; and walking in the Street. This Enformant said after this manner to the said Midwife, Heark ye; You spoke dangerous Words t'other day concerning what you'd do to your Husband; Have you done as you said you would? For the People have been looking every where after him, and there's no such Man to be found: I hope 'tis not the mangled Body that they talk of to be murther'd. No (says she) 'tis not that Body. This Enformant said further to her, Why, how could you go to Work to Dispatch a Man that you are not able to Grapple with? Oh, (says the Woman) he put me hard to't: but I won't tell you to day; 'tis not a thing to be talk'd off in the Street: This Enformant replying, Why, We speak French; No body understands us. Well! (says she) Let it alone for Five or Six Days, and I'le tell you. This Enformant pressing her again to tell him, till she Swore she would not.

And saith, That the said Midwife going toward Phoenix-Alley in Long-Acre, where this Enformant left her, she the said Midwife said to this Enformant in French, Bouche Clos; or in English, Not a Word.

Philip Yard.

Jurat' Die & Anno supradict. coram me

Roger L'Estrange.
Midd. & West.

The Enformation of Julian Coze, of the Parish of St. Annes Westminster, Gardner, taken upon Oath, Feb. 9. 1687/8.
SAith, That being in Company upon Thursday Last in the Evening with one Yard a French-man, he the said Yard told this Enformant, that he would never see the Parisian more, (speaking of Dennis Hobry.) This Enformant asking him, What made him say so? To whom Yard replyed, that Hobry's Wife had told him as much: Whereupon this Enformant reflecting upon the manner of speaking, and upon Hobry's being from his House for some time, and no News of him, He this Enformant propos'd the charging of a Constable with her, which was done that Night accordingly; and this Enformant was Assistant to the Seisure of the said Mrs. Hobry.

Julian Coze.

Jurat' Die & Anno supradict. coram me

Roger L'Estrange.


Midd. & West.

The Enformation of Henry Fuller, of St. Margarets Westminster, taken upon Oath Feb. 17. 1687/8.
SAith, That being told by James Richards a Victualler, in Long-Ditch, that there were Two Frenchmen at the said Richard's House, that were speaking something about the Murther'd Body, and that one of them said, the Woman, suspected for the Murther, had as good as Own'd it; This Enformant being in the Office of a Constable, agreed with the said Richards to go to the Lodgings of the said Woman, and Apprehended her upon the Suspicion: Whereupon, This Enformant, and the said Richards, taking one Philip Yard along with them, and another Person then in the Company, went to the House where the said Woman Lodg'd, but missing her at Home, went according to Direction to the Last in Phaenix-Alley, where they took her into Custody. This being betwixt Eleven and Twelve at Night, upon the Second of this Instant February: And not finding a Justice of Peace up, Deliver'd her up to the Gate-House 'till next Morning.

Hen. Fuller.

Jurat. Die & Anno supradict. coram me

Roger L'Estrange.

The Enformation of Christopher Austin, of St. Pauls Covent-garden, Shoe-maker, taken upon Oath, Feb. 3. 1687/8.
SAith, That being the Servant of John Yzember, (or some such Name) a Shoe-maker living at the Golden Shooe in Phaenix-Alley,

Long-Acre; the Mistress of this Enformant being ready to fall in Labour, sent her Prentice Richard to a French Midwife, living in Castle-street, to come and Assist her: the said French Midwife coming to the Mistress of this Enformant, and she not presently falling in Labour as she expected, she desir'd the Midwife to stay that Night with her, for she did not know how things might fall out. The Midwife staid accordingly, and went away the next morning; this was some Day last Week, but this Enformant doth not remember what part of the Week. The Midwife aforesaid came several times after this, to enquire how it was with this Enformants Mistress; and particularly, came Last Night to the House, and Supp'd there, and desir'd to Lodge there, because she did not know what Occasion there might be for her: This Enformants Mistress agreeing that she should be there that Night: The Midwife went accordingly to Bed toward Eleven a Clock. There came a Constable to the Door, just about the Watch, crying Eleven; when Richard, this Enformants Fellow-Prentice, Ask'd Who was there? To which, no Answer being return'd, this Enformant call'd again and again, Who's there? If you do not Answer, you shall not come in. Upon this a French-man ask'd in English, if Madame, meaning the Midwife, was within? but this Enformant doth not remember the Name. Upon this, the said Richard above-spoken of, spake in French to the French Midwife, and told her, that somebody call'd for her to go to a Womans Labour; whereupon the Midwife went up to this Enformants Mistress to fetch the Keys: So this Enformants Mistress went down along with the Midwife, the said Midwife desiring that Richard might go along with her, and carry a Light. Upon this, the Boy got up, and the Midwife opened the Door, a French-man entering first, and bidding the Constable come in; who, upon coming in, shew'd his Staff, the Midwife seeming Surpriz'd. Hereupon, one of the French•…'d the Midwife, Where her Husband was? who An•… that she left him in Bed last Thursday; the French-man


Answering, that if she left him in Bed, it was with his Arms and Legs cut off: The Midwife, upon these Words, deliver'd up her self before they layd Hands of her, and Desir'd them to make No Noise, but to go Civilly along with her. This Enformants Mistress Then did bid Richard ask what the Matter was? To which, a Frenchman made Answer, that he would swear, that she walk'd up and down the Room when she had Cut off one Limb, and then Cut off the rest in her own Bed. Upon giving an account hereof to this Enformants Mistriss, the Constable Commanded the Frenchman Last above mention'd to Assist in Carrying her away; This Enformants Mistress giving order for a Piece of Link to Light them along. And upon Discourse among them, the Frenchman that Spake of what he could swear, told the Midwife that he was taken upon Suspicion, and that if he were Call'd, he must Impeach her, and tell the Truth: The abovesaid Richard, speaking to This Enformant of some Bloud in the Bed, by which it was discover'd.
And saith, That the Prentice, Richard before spoken of, said to This Enformant, That This Murther if'twere Twenty Year would be found out at Last, and This in the Hearing of the Midwife, who made No Answer. And the said Richard told This Enformant further; That his Master saying in the Hearing of the Midwife, that if he knew who it was that did it, he would be the first that should tell on't, adding that he never heard of such a thing in his Days; Hereupon the Midwife said, she saw the Limbs brought from the Savoy in a Sack.

This Enformants Mistress upon the hearing of the Story gave Hard words to the Midwife, and call'd her Villaine, saying if she had Imagin'd such a Thing she should never have come within her Doors.


And moreover, that the Prentice abovemention'd, told This Enformant that he Heard the said Frenchman say, that she had formerly Threatn'd to kill her Husband.

The Mark of C Christ. Austen.

Jurat' Die & Anno supradict' Coram me

Ro. L'Estrange.
Midd. & West.

The Enformation of Richard Kirkham Servant to John Yzember, Shoemaker of the Parish of Covent Garden, Taken upon Oath, Feb. 1687/8.
SAith, That a French Midwife passing by the Name of Madam Desermeau, came Last Night to the House of This Enformants Master, stayd Supper there, and was to have Lodg'd there; and That This Enformant heard his Mistress say, That the said Midwife desir'd she might stay there All Night; being Under some Disappointment at home.

When the Key of the Street-Door was Taken out, and About the Hour of Eleven, there was a knocking at the Door; And an Enquiry after a French Midwife, Naming the Person; and This Enformant said she was There: And upon Further Discourse, the Person at the Door said he came from one Mrs. Richards in Shandois Street. The French Woman Scrupled at going to Strangers; but however she would Fetch the Key; And being come down, and one of the Persons that knocked being let into the House, the French Midwife would have had this Enformant to go before, to see what was the matter. This Enformant went to the Door then, with one Richards, being one of those that knocked at the Door, who immediately made a

Sign, and a Constable and two others came in; and upon their Entry, One ask'd, which it was? To which, a French-man, one Yard, replyed, This is the Woman, pointing to the Person: Whereupon the Constable shew'd his Staff, and took her into Custody. This Enformants Mistress being Frighted at this, Ask'd What the matter was? To which the Midwife replyed, Quelque Drollerie: Or in English, Some little Waggery. This Enformant's Mistress pressing more and more to know the Bus'ness: And some body asking the Midwife Where her Husband was? She made Answer, that she had not seen him since the Thursday before, when she left him in Bed. And being asked, If she had not seen him since? She said, No: and, in French, that he was a Vagabond, and she knew nothing of his ways, or to that Effect. It was Reply'd, She must find him out: And her Answer was, How should she find him out, that did not see him once in six Months? One of the French-men made Answer, that he would be found: This Enformants Mistress asking thereupon, (as mistrusting the Bus'ness) Where he was, or what was become of him? Some One of the French-men replying, that he was dead, and cut in pieces; and that by her own Hands, in her own Room, and in her own Bed. This Enformants Mistress speaking furiously to her, Traitresse! Que vous ayez Commise une Crime si Noire! Traitress that thou art, to be Guilty of so black a Crime! No, Madam, (says she) I am Innocent; And so they Carry'd her away; and at Parting, Well, (said this Enformant's Mistress) I believe I shall never see you more.
The Mark of R Rich. Kirkham.


Jurat. Die & Anno supradict. coram me

Ro. L'Estrange.


Midd. & West.

The Enformation of John Izember, of the Parish of St. Pauls Covent-Garden, taken upon Oath, February 3. 1687/8.
SAith, That this Enformant hath known a French Midwife, by the Name (to the best of this Enformants memory) of Desermeau, for about five years last past, she having laid this Enformants Wife of several Children.

And saith, that about Ten or Twelve Days since, the Wife of this Enformant sent for the said Midwife, being, as she thought, ready to fall in Labour. The Midwife came accordingly, and the Wife of this Enformant desired her to stay all Night, to see the Event of that Illness: She stay'd, but the next morning this Enformant's Wife finding her self better, the Midwife went away, but came day by day afterward to Enquire how 'twas with her.

And saith, That the said Midwife came Last Night to the House of this Enformant, saying, that she did not care for lying at home that Night; and so she Supp'd with this Enformant, whose Wife told him, that she had agreed she should Lodge there that Night. About Eleven a Clock, the Midwife came up to this Enformants Wife, and ask'd her for the Key of the House; saying, that there was some body knock'd to call her to a Womans Labour; but she did not know the Voice, and had a mind to see who it was: This Enformants Wife thereupon going down with her to open the Door. After which, this Enformants


Wife told this Enformant, that the Midwife said I do not care to go Alone with that Man, (speaking of one of the Company) Pray let your Servant go along with me. Upon this, a French-man that was already Enter'd the House, call'd in the Constable. And this Enformant, upon the Subject matter of this Clause, refers himself to the Testimony of his Wife, from whom this Enformant had the Relation.
Jean Izember.


Jurat. Die & Anno supradict. coram me

Ro. L'Estrange.
Midd. & West.

The Enformation of Mary, the Wife of Tobias Hope, of the Parish of St. Martins in the Fields, Sawyer, taken upon Oath, Feb. 3. 1687/8.
SAith, That a French Midwife, of whose Name this Enformant cannot give a perfect Account, Lodg'd in the House of this Enformant for about Three Months last past; And that within the Compass of that time, (but the precise time uncertain) a Person that the said Midwife said was her Husband, came and Lodg'd with her, and went (as this Enformant was told) into France, about a Month or Six Weeks since, (to this Enformants best memory;) And that he return'd again to the House of this Enformant about Three Weeks since; and that this Enformant hath not taken

Notice of his Lodging in the House for about Ten or Twelve Days since.
But that some time last Week, this Enformant Ask'd the said Midwife how it came to pass that he did not Lodge in the House, and where he was? The Midwife's Daughter, in the Presence of the Mother, telling this Enformant, that he heard there was a Warrant out against him, and he durst not come; saying further, that he was to go with a Lord into New England for Three Years: And the Daughter saying, that her Husband did Work for that Lord, and that her Husband would give the said Midwife's Husband Thirty Shillings to Cloath him, and 'twould be a good Riddance of him. The Daughter Adding, that the Mother should keep out of the Way till he was gone. And the Mother likewise came Yesterday morning to the House of this Enformant, and said, that Now he was gone, for which she was Glad with all her Heart, and that she came now to Lodge there again.

And saith, That the Midwife and her Daughter came to this Enformants House upon Last Tuesday morning, and paid this Enformant Eight Shillings in part of Rent; and the Mother desir'd this Enformant to let her have a pair of Sheets; but this Enformant put her off 'till Saturday, and she rested contented.

At the Time next above mentioned, this Enformant Asked the Midwife and her Daughter, whether they had seen the murther'd Body? The Midwife replyed, No, No, she did not love any such Sights. This Enformant taking Notice of a very outragious Quarrel betwixt them, Advis'd the Woman to have a care what she did to her Husband, being affraid it might go further. The Enformant refers


her self upon the Particulars above, to the best of her Memory.
The Mark of Y Mary Hope.

Jurat. Die & Anno supradict. coram me

Ro. L'Estrange.

The Enformation of Elizabeth Beech, the Daughter of Mary Hope above-mentioned.
THis Enformant saith upon Oath, That the whole matter in the above-written Enformation of her Mother is true to her Knowledge.

And saith, that there is a Lock put on to a Back-Door of a Low Room where the Midwife Lodg'd, which had only a Bolt before; and that this Enformant knew nothing of it till this morning.

The mark of E Elizabeth Beecb.


Jurat. Die & Anno supradict. coram me

Ro. L'Estrange.


Midd. & West.

The Enformation of Maria Anne Rippault the Wife of Claude Royer, of the Parish of St. Giles's in the Fields, Goldsmith, Taken upon Oath, Feb. 20. 1687/8.
SAith, That This Enformant was told about a Fortnight or Three Weeks before the Murther of Hobry was spoken of, that the said Hobry was returnd out of France; about which time, the reputed Wife of Hobry, came to the Lodgings of This Enformant, and Discoursed to This Enformant in the Presence of this Enformants Mother to the Effect following. Mon Coquin de Mary est encore Ʋne fois Revenu de France; and in English, This Rogue My Husband is come back out of France again. My Cousins are stark mad upon't, but we have Complotted, or laid our Heads together, how to get quit of him. This Enformant replying, why, what will You do? How will You get quit of him? the other making Answer, You shall hear more of That 'ere it be Long. And so she went her way.

And This Enformant being Interrogated, if she had had any Discourse formerly with the Wife of Hobry concerning the Cousins before spoken of; she maketh This Answer, That the said Wife of Hobry having Assisted This Enformant about five or six Months since, in the Office of a Midwife; among other Discourses said to This Enformant to the Purpose following, These Cousins of Mine are good Husbands, and Industrious Men, and there are enow would Marry them, but we will keep them to our selves, for My self and my Daughter. (who both of them had Husbands at the same time.) This Enformant Asking her how she could think of Marrying Those Young Fellows to her Self and her Daughter, when they



had Husbands already? The Wife of Hobry replying, Oh Never Trouble your self for that: I'ay des ruses de diable pour nous en defaire; In English, I will find out as many Tricks as the Devil himself but wee'le get quit of him. This Enformant being at that Time Indispos'd, doth not recollect any thing further Material in that Discourse.
But This Enformant saith further, That the Wife of Hobry came to This Enformants Lodgings upon Thursday next after the finding of the Body, about four or five a Clock in the Afternoon, with the Younger of the Two Cosins before spoken of, whose Name, as This Enformant remembers, is Favet: This Enformant asking the said Woman, He bien! vous vous estes desfaite donc de vostre Mary; In English, Well! You have got quit of Your Husband then? The Woman Answer'd Ouy: and the Yong Favet (or Cosin) stood a little while, Pale, and Surpriz'd, but recovering Himself: Ouy (dit il) nous l'avons envoyée aux Maroquins; & quand il reviendra il nous apportera des Diamands; In English, Yes (says he) we have sent him into the Indies, and when he comes back again he will bring us Diamonds; speaking the words Smiling, and in a way of Raillery. And hereupon, the Wife of Hobry and Young Favet being about to go away, This Enformant ask'd them whether they were going? The Woman made Answer, We are going Home, speaking of the House where Hobry Lodg'd.

And further saith, That upon Thursday above mentiond, about Eleven or Twelve at Noon, the Mother of This Enformant said to her to This Effect, Here has been This Morning the Wife of Hobry, who tells me, that she is now got quit of the Rogue her Husband; and that she hus sent him away to the Indies. This Enformants Mother Asking her How she had sent him away to the Indies? She said, That they had made him Drunk with Brandy, and


put him on Board, and that the Elder Favet had lent her Two Guinneas to give to the People to say Nothing of it. Hobry Pursuing her discourse how she had told her Two Cosins, that she should be the ruine of them in Taking their Money, To which she receiv'd for Answer, That if she got but quit of her Husband, they could earn more Money.
And This Enformant calleth also to Mind that she hath heard the said Hobry say, several Months since, many Times, That she would be the Death of her Husband, and that she had it several times in her Thoughts to Strangle him, and put him into a Common-shore, near at hand to her Lodgings, but that it was too Little, for she had Measur'd it; and she was Resolv'd to Cut him in Pieces, or to Dispatch him some other way.

Mari-Anne Rippault.


Jurat' Die & Anno supradicto Coram Me

Ro. L'Estrange.

Midd. & West.

The Enformation of Joan Rippault, of the Parish of St. Giles's in the Fields, taken upon Oath, Feb. 20. 1687/8.
SAith, That she hath many times heard the Wife of Dennis Hobry exclaim against her Husband, calling him Drunkard, and Lewd Names; and that within the Compass of Five or Six Months last past, she this Enformant hath heard the said wife of Hobry, say (meaning her Husband) that she would kill him, and that she has had it in her head to Kill him, and cast him, dans l'Esgoust, that is to say, in the Common Shore; but that upon measuring the Passage, she found it was too narrow for him.

And saith, that the said Wife of Hobry telling this Enformant at a time uncertain, (but since Hobry's last Return out of France) that the Villain her Husband was now return'd out of France, and that her Little Cousins (speaking of the Two Brothers that pass'd under the Name of Favet) were very much troubled at it; but saying withal, (speaking of the Two Brothers) We have been advising together how to get rid of him.

And saith, that upon Thursday, in the Week when the Body was said to be found, the said Wife of Hobry came alone to this Enformant in a Low Chamber, saying after this manner to her, My Daughter has bid me come and tell you something concerning my Husband; This Enformant asking what it was; the other replyed, I have sent my Husband to the Indies, and I have given Fifty Guinnea's to put him aboard, and to send him away: This Enformant asking her if she had so much Money; she replyed, Yes, she had



gathered it together, saying over and above, That a Kinsman of Hobry had help'd to make him drunk, and so got him aboard: And without the help of Hobry's Kinsman, I could have done nothing. I borrow'd two Guinnea's more of Le Grand Cousin for People to keep Hobry quiet in the Ship if he should be troublesom; pursuing this Discourse, and saying further, that she told the Two Brothers, this drawing of Mony from them would be their Ruine: To which one of them reply'd, Get quit of your Husband, and we can get more Mony.
And further, that the Wife of Hobry came toward the Evening to the Lodgings of this Enformant, with the Younger Favet in her Company, to whom the Daughter of this Enformant said somewhat to this purpose, Well! You have got clear of your Husband then? The Wife replying, Yes, we have sent him for the Indies, and the Younger Favet, saying thereupon, We have sent him to the Maroquins to look for Diamonds.

Jane Rippault.


Jurat. Die & Anno Supradict. coram me

Ro. L'Estrange.




The Enformation of Claude Poullet of Long-Acre, Enammel-Painter, taken upon Oath, Feb. 20. 1687/8.
SAith, That about five Months since, this Enformant heard the Wife of Hobry talking Bitterly against her Husband to Mademoiselle Mary-Anne Rippault, among other matters, in Words to this Effect, I have had it several Times in my Thought, to Strangle that Husband of mine, and to throw him into the Common-Shore, before my Door; but I have taken measure of the Place; and I find it is too little to receive the Body, unless I should cut him all to pieces: But I must do it some other way.

C. Poullet.

Jurat. Die & Anno supradict. coram me

Ro. L'Estrange.
Midd. & West.

The Enformation of Margaret Vasal, of the Parish of St. Anne Westminster, taken upon Oath, Feb. 6. 1687/8.
SAith, That Yesterday was Sennight, Dame Hobry a Midwife came after Mass to the House of this Enformant, being formerly known to this Enformant, and ask'd to Dine with her: For she was loth to go home to Dinner, because there was some body she had no mind to see. She staid Dinner,



and told this Enformant that she was going into the Country the next day to lay a Lady of Quality; this Enformant telling her she would lose those in the Town that had occasion to make use of Her: Hobry Answering, That would make amends for all. Hobry had at that Time a little Office of our Blessed Lady in her hand, and thereupon told her this Enformant, that it was the first Present that Hobry had made her; upon which Words she fetch'd a Deep Sigh; and told this Enformant, that her Husband had threaten'd to Dispatch her in Three or Four days.
After this, Ah my dear Lady, says she, I know you well enough to be a Person that I may trust my Life in your hands. This Enformant asking her immediately, How your Life? Pray will you explain your self; You Fright me: What's the matter? Well, says Hobry, Ʋpon pain of Eternal Damnation, lift up your hand, and promise you'l never discover it, but keep it as secret as if'twere under the seal of Confession: And fetching a deep Sigh, I have murther'd that miserable man, she cry'd. This Enformant calling out to her, Miserable Wretch, what have you done, and bid her be gone; Hobry begging Advice what she should do; this Enformant bad her be gone; she would have nothing to do with her; Hobry crying out, She was Lost, She was mad, and other like Words of Desperation; this Enformant seeming not to believe her: Hobry told her, that she had strangled him with his Crevat.

Hobry told this Enformant further, that the Landlady of the House came into her Chamber, and ask'd if it were not a Shame that her Husband should be abed at that time of day? Hobry telling the Landlady that he had been out Late, and bid her let him lye a-sleep, whereupon the Landlady went away.


And further; Hobry told this Enformant, that she had declar'd the Murther to her Two Cousins, and begg'd their help to carry him away; but they told her that for the whole World they would have nothing to do in't: And upon this, Hobry went away crying.

And that upon Thursday Last, about Nine in the Morning, Hobry came again to this Enformant, and this Enformant spake softly to her, O thou wretched Creature, art thou not content to murther thy Husband, without cutting him to pieces! Hobry replying to this Enformant, that She had not cut him to pieces. And in Proof of it, she said, That This was a Lord, with several Rings upon his Finger, and his Head was found in the Park: But she said further, that she had caus'd him to be Bury'd by two of his Particular Friends; and that the doing of it cost her Fifty Pieces, and there was an End of him: but for her own Part, she was a lost Woman.

This Enformant told her, 'twas impossible for her to Bury her Husband, and no body to take Notice of it, for she could not carry him out alone; But she said Yes, he was Buryed, and that in Three or Four days she would tell her where he was Bury'd.

Margaret Vasal.



Jarat. Die & Anno supradict. coram me

Ro. L'Estrange.


Midd. & West.

The Enformation of James Lorraine, of the Parish of St. James Westminster, Surgeon, taken upon Oath, Feb. 3. 1687/8.
SAith, That about Three Months since, this Enformant had some Discourse with a French Midwife, and ask'd her what was become of her Husband? She made Answer, she would give a good deal to have him Drown'd or Kill'd.

And further, that on this Last Wednesday he went to the House where the said Midwife Lodg'd, and missing of her Husband, left a Chalk upon the Door, of Direction, where Dennis Hobry might come to this Enformant; and according to the Appointment of the above-said Direction upon the Door, the Wife of the said Hobry came to this Enformant, of whom the said Enformant enquir'd, What was become of her Husband? Who Answered, That he was affraid of an Arrest, and durst not shew himself: This Enformant Answering, that he would shew him where he should be safe, and try to make up the Bus'ness; the said Midwife Answering, that she would bring him Word the next morning. On Thursday morning (Yesterday) the said Enformant met her at Chappel, who asking again after her Husband, received for Answer, That he was gone to the Indies, and he should never see him more.

This Enformant ask'd her this Morning before two of his Majesties Justices of Peace, what was become of her Husband? she said, She could not tell him; but Such a One would give him a particular Account of it, mentioning a Person, whom this Enformant took to be Yard.



And saith, That this Enformant being Interrogated if he knew any Mark about the Body of Dennis Hobry, to Distinguish him particularly from another Man? This Enformant saith, That he remembreth that he had a Scar upon One Hand, and since the Delivering of the said Evidence, He This Enformant hath been to see the said Body and Limbs, where they lay Expos'd, and told Sir Robert Clark, one of his Majesties Justices of the Peace, with the Officer that shew'd the Body, and other Persons that were there Present, that if This was the Body, and Those the Limbs of Dennis Hobry, there would be found a Scar upon such a Part of the Hand; and upon the Sight of the Limbs, there was a Scar to be seen upon the right Hand, as This Enformant had told Sir Robert Clark and Others before, who likewise saw the said Scar with This Enformant.

Pet. Lugg.
J. Lorraine.


Jurat' Die & Anno supradict. Coram Nobis

Ro. L'Estrange.
Midd. & West.

The Enformation of Anthony Matson, Beadle of the Dutchy-Liberty in the Strand.
SAith, That by the order of Mr. Thomas Harris, High Constable of the Hundred of Oswalston, This Enformant caused Night-Men to come and search the House of Office belonging to the House of Mr. deFresneau, near Exeter-Change, where this Enformant attended accordingly; and saw the taking up of a Head out of the said House of Office, in a Cloth, about a Fortnight since; which This Enformant Carry'd to his own House; and there Caus'd


it to be Wash'd, and afterward by the order of the High-Constable Carry'd it to a Body at St. Giles's Bone-House. This Enformant having had the said Head in his Custody all the While, from the taking it up, to the Delivery of it to the said Bone-House.
Ant. Matson.



Jurat' Die & Anno supradict' Coram Me

Ro. L'Estrange.
Midd. & West.

The Enformation of Giles Malvault &c. And Mary Hope, Taken upon Oath, Feb. 6. 1687/8.
THEY say Joyntly and Severally, that having been up at St. Giles's Church together, to see the Head of a Man that lyes there Exposed; They These Enformants Declare that they knew the Person of Denis Hobry, Reputed the Husband of a French Midwife, and that they Know That to have been the Head and Face of Denis Hobry.

Giles Malvault.
The Mark of cH Mary Hope.


Jurat' Die & Anno supradict' Coram Me

R. L'Estrange.


Midd. & West.

The Examination of Mary the Wife of Lewis Pottron of the Parish of S. Giles's in the Fields, taken Feb. 3. 1687/8.
THat she, this Examinate, was at the House of Mr. Hope, where her Father and her Mother lodged, upon Wednesday last, and her Mother likewise in Company, she and this Examinate going thither together: And that this Informant went thither to pay some Money owing for Rent, there being Twelve Shillings due, and Eight Shillings paid. And this Examinate saith, That she was not there Yesterday.

And saith, That this Examinate went to the House of the said Mr. Hope, upon Monday last in the Morning, and that her only Business was to see her Mother, and that there was no Discourse of her Father.

And saith, That upon Tuesday, the Mother of this Examinate, was about Noon, (as this Examinate remembers) at the Lodgings of this Examinate, telling this Examinate, That there was a great Noise in the Street about a Dead Body that was found, saying, It was a sad thing; and this Examinate answered, That she had heard of it too: And that this is all the Examinate remembers of the said Discourse.

And saith, being interrogated, If she, this Examinate, ever spake of her Husband's allowing Thirty Shillings to her Father-in-Law Hobry, to buy Cloaths, or to that Effect, and that if the Mony were lost, it would be a good Riddance. This Examinate saith, That she said nothing to that Purpose.

And this Examinate being asked, if she gave her Opinion for her Mother not to appear 'til her Father-in-Law was


gone; This Examinate positively denyeth her having said any thing to that Purpose.
And saith, being interrogated, When she last saw her Father at his Lodgings at Mr. Hopes, That it was upon Sunday last was Sennight.

And being interrogated, If ever she saw her Mother in any other Lodging when she lay from Home; saith, That she hath not heard where her Mother Lodged, at any time since her lodging with Mrs Hope; but only once or twice, as she believeth, in Phoenix-Alley.

The Mark of X Mary Pottron.


Die & Anno supradict' coram me,

Ro. L'Estrange.
Midd. & West.

The further Examination of Mary Pottron, Feb. 5. 1687/8. Saith,
THat this Examinate hath several times heard her Father-in-law Denis Hobry, say to this Purpose; That he would be the Death of this Informant's Mother: And hath likewise heard her Mother say, That Denis Hobry had often threatned it; but that this Examinate never heard her Mother speak of any purpose she had to kill her Husband.

And saith, That this Examinate hath not seen the Dead Body of her Father; neither was she any ways Consenting or Privy to any Violence upon him; but that she hath observed her Mother to be very much Disordered in her Mind for about a Week last past. And that she, this Examinate,


asking her Mother what she ailed, received for Answer She was not well.
And being interrogated, If she, this Examinate, knoweth one Matthew Darney a Joyner, or one David Foster a Joyner also: She, this Examinate, maketh answer, That she knoweth neither the One nor the Other.

The Mark of X Mary Pottron.


Capt' Die. & Anno, supradict' coram me,

Ro. L'Estrange.
Midd. & West.

The Examination of John Desermeau, Servant to Martin Dubois, of the Parish of S. Clement's Danes, Weaver, Feb. 3. 1687/8. Saith,
THat upon Monday Morning last, the Mother of this Examinate came to his Master to have him Home with her, to speak to one that she could not understand, this Examinates Mother not understanding English; and about Nine or Ten a Clock, this Examinate went with his Mother to her Lodgings; but the Man she spake of did not come.

This Examinate stayed at his Mothers Lodgings about half an Hour, and went then to Covent Garden, where this Examinate staid 'til Seven or Eight a Clock at Night, where he spake to no Body; but about that Hour returned Home to his Mothers, and saw his Mother, and staid about a quarter of an Hour, and then went and lay under a Stall over against the Rose Tavern all Night. About Seven a Clock

in the Morning, he went again to his Mothers, where he saw his Mother, and saw his Sister also that Morning, meeting her in New-Street in the Strand.

Capt' Die & Anno supradict' coram me

Ro. L'Estrange.
Midd. & West.

The further Examination of John Desermeau, Servant to Martin Dubois, &c. Feb. 5. 1687/8. Saith,
THat the Mother of this Examinate (Mary Hobry) hath said several times, That she was afraid her Husband would Kill her, and that he Threatned her several mornings, when he had been all night at a Debauch.

And that upon Monday last, the Mother of this Examinate fetched him from his Master home to her Lodgings, where she told this Informant that his Father was dead, and he must help to carry him away; shewing the Body (as it lay upon the Bed) to this Examinate; who said he would not help her, and ask'd her, why she did such a Thing? Whereupon she said to this Examinate, as at other times, That she was continually in fear of him, and asked this Examinate what she should do with him; and hereupon this Examinate offer'd to go away, but she hindred him from going out, and then she would have this Examinate help her to Quarter the Body, which this Examinate refused, and did not so much as touch it, but went away into the the next Room, his Mother saying she would do it her self


then; so she took a Knife, and afterwards brought the Head into t'other Room, where this Examinate was: Going back again, and cutting off the Legs, the Arms, and the Thighs, and bringing them into the Room one after another; this Examinate pressing to be gone, but she bad him stay, and not leave her alone. After this she put the Body in a Rag, and took it up with her Peticoat, and, after several Refusals to help, and to go along with her; This Examinate went with her at last, she saying she was loth to go alone, upon which she went away with the Body into Parker's-Lane, and there threw it behind a Dunghill.
After she was rid of the Body, she went back and took the Thighs, and carried them to the Savoy, and put them into the House-of-Office, and from thence returning, she carried the Legs and Arms to the same place, this Examinate going along with her.

And after that, she went back for the Head, and propounded the putting of it into a Common-House-of Office; this Examinate telling her, that he was afraid to meddle with it, his Mother replying, That if she should be taken, he would be in no danger, because he did not touch it. From thence she went back again and went to Bed.

This Examinate being Interrogated, Whether he ever heard how his own Father came by his Death, and whether his Mother had ever been Question'd about it? He maketh Answer, That he hath heard it said by some, that he died of a Wound; by others, that he died of a Natural Death; but never heard any thing of it Charg'd upon his Mother.

And saith, That upon Monday last this Examinate asked his Mother if his Sister knew of his Fathers being Dead, who made Answer, Yes she did: And saith, That he knoweth not any such Person as Matthew Darney, or David Foster.

The Mark of X John Desermeau.


Capt' Die & Anno supradict' coram me

Ro. L'Estrange.


Midd. & West.

The Examination of Mary Hobry, of the Parish of S. Martins in the Fields, taken Feb. 4. 1687/8. Saith,
THat this Examinate was Married to Denis Hobry about four years since; and that after the Solemn Marriage of the Church, he the said Denis Hobry, with Curses and Imprecations deny'd the said Marriage, and and cast all sort of Infamous Reproaches upon this Examinate: This being the occasion of all his Outrages, because this Examinate would not submit to a compliance with him in Villanies contrary to Nature. In the miserable Condition above spoken of, this Examinate liv'd for the space of Three Months, under Beatings and Revilings, going every day in danger of her Life.

This Examinate being brought to Desperation by this miserable Usage, retir'd into a Private Chamber, and left him, living very close for a matter of Four Months, when her said Husband going into France, she appeared abroad again, and followed her Affairs. This continued for about Two Years, he being most of the time in France.

After this Examinate had been Two years Married, and Suffer'd, and Parted as above, her said Husband came Three or Four times to her, making large Promises how good a Husband he would be, and how kindly he would live with her; and in fine, desir'd that by all means they might live together again, declaring that he had Confess'd his Sins to Almighty God, and that he would be another Man. To which this Examinate yielded, upon Condition that he should declare the same before a Priest and Two Witnesses, and own, That this Examinate was his Lawful Wife: which Declaration was Made and Sign'd before Father Gaspar, and Enter'd in Writing upon a Register.



This Examinate had not been above two or three days with him again, before he began to use her as formerly, and continued his Ill-usage for a matter of two Months upon the same Subject and Occasion as formerly. About that time he went away into France, and carried all away that he could, to the wearing Cloaths and Necessaries of this Examinate. After Three Months stay, he returned again, and upon the same Instances and Promises as before, this Examinate submitted to accompany with him again: And this way of Life this Examinate led from time to time, till this last unhappy Separation, her Husband continuing in the same way still, of Leaving her, and Coming again, and using her Ill.

This Examinate finding herself in this hopeless Condition, and under frequent Temptations of putting some violent end to her Misfortunes, she rather chose to make Tryal if she could prevail upon him to agree to a Final Separation, and prest it upon him several times with great Earnestness; but he still refused it with Outrages of Language and Actions, telling this Examinate he would be the Ruine of her.

This Informant finding herself without Remedy, in a Distraction of Thoughts, and under the Affliction of Bodily Distempers, contracted by her said Husband's dissolute Course of Life, her Frailty was no longer able to resist the Temptations of dangerous Thoughts; sometimes this Examinate was thinking to go into some other Part of the World and leave him; and other while she was tempted to think of Extremities either upon her Husband or upon Her self; and often told her Husband plainly, That she would Kill him if he followed that Course: This Examinate having lamented her Condition to others of her acquaintance, and telling them she was not able to live this course of Life, and that Mischief would come on't at last. But after all these dangerous Words and Menaces, this Examinate upon Recollection, bethought her self of the Horridness of the Sin, and by God's Grace was diverted from executing so wicked a Resolution.


And saith, That this Examinate was transported about two or three Months since, to that degree of Rage and Impatience, that she took a Knife once with a Resolution to Kill her Husband, but retracted and did not go forward with it. And that she took the same Desperate Resolution again, a matter of fifteen Days after, proposing both times to do it in the Night; but by the Grace of God she was then again restrained.

And saith, That she this Examinate told her Husband in the Morning, both these times, the Resolution she had taken over Night to Kill him in his Bed; but he made slight of it, and told this Examinate she durst not do it.

And saith, That on the very Evening before this Examinate's Husband went last into France, this Examinate spake to her Husband to this effect; Hobry, you are now going into France, pray bethink your self and lead a better Life; for when you come back again, if you Treat me as you did formerly, I do not know what Extremities you may Provoke me to. Whereupon he promis'd this Examinate with dreadful Oaths, that he would be a good Husband to her.

The Husband of this Examinate returned out of France, and came to this Informant's Lodgings about three Weeks since, when this Informant received him after the following manner, saying to him, Hobry, you are welcome, and pray will you change your course of Life now, that we may live Comfortably together. Yes (saith he) upon condition you will put me in Cloaths, and furnish me with what I want. (He having got Money in France, and spent it to the last Farthing.) This Informant told him she could not supply him at that Rate, for Times were hard, and she had much ado to Live and pay Honest Debts. This Examinate's Husbands replying to this effect; If you do not do as I say, I will be a worse Husband to you than ever I was. This Examinate told him she did not know what she should do with him, for his Barbarous Usages had made her Mad. And his way was, so often as he asked any thing of this Informant that she could not


supply him with, he would abuse her, and say he would make her repent of it. And this Examinate hath been told by one Yard, that her Husband said in his hearing, That he would be the Destruction of her. This was the Course of Life this Examinate led, till this Thursday last was Sennight; upon which day this Examinate had no Thought of offering any Violence to her Husband, but went to Bed about her usual hour, Ten a Clock, leaving the Fore-door open for him when he should come home.
About Five in the Morning, the Husband of this Examinate came in, outragiously in Choler, and more than half Drunk. This Examinate was a-sleep, till her Husband Wak'd her with a heavy Blow with his Fist upon her Stomach, and said to her, What! you are Drunk? This Examinate Answering, No; you are Drunk, you'd never come home at Five a Clock in the Morning else; you have been among base Company. He made this Answer, I have been among Bougres and Rogues, that have made me Mad, and you shall pay for't; whereupon he gave this Examinate another violent Blow upon the Breast: With That, this Examinate turn'd from him, and fell a weeping. And this Examinate declareth in the Presence of Almighty God, That she had not as yet any Purpose or Thoughts of attempting upon his Life.

While this Examinate was weeping, her Husband took her in his Arms and Press'd her so hard, that she could not fetch her Breath, and that the Blood started out of her Mouth. Immediately upon this, he attempted the Forcing of this Examinate to the most Unnatural of Villanies, and acted such a Violence upon her Body in despite of all the Opposition that she could make, as forc'd from her a great deal of Blood, this Examinate crying out to her Landlady, who was (as she believes) out of distance of hearing her. This Examinate told him, I will immediately Rise and Complain to the Neighbours: Whereupon he took her Forcibly by the Arm, and threw her down upon the Bed, being before siting-up

to rise; and after this, Bit her like a Dog, &c.— this Examinate saying to him, Am I to lead this Life for ever? Yes, and a worse too, ere it be long, you had best look to your self, and upon these words he fell a-sleep.
Upon this Respite the Examinate lay in Torments both of Body and of Mind, thinking with her self, What will become of me? What am I to do! Here am I Threatned to be Murder'd, and I have no way in the World to Deliver my self, but by Beginning with him; and immediately upon these Thoughts, this Examinate started up and took one of his Garters, which was de Fiscelle, or Pack-thread, put it double about his Neck et la noua en serrant de toute sa Force, and so tyed it, and drew it as hard as she could, de sorte qu'il en estoit Estrangle dans un quart d' heure, sans beaucoup de Resistance. Insomuch that he was Choak'd with it in a Quarter of an Hour, with little resistance. The Body rested there till Monday, only this Examinate took off the Pack-thread within a Quarter of an Hour after his Death; and in hopes that he was not yet Dead, repenting with all her Heart, that she had been guilty of such a Heinous Sin, and try'd Brandy to bring him to Life again.

Upon Monday Morning, Jan. 30. 1687/8. this Examinate went to the House of Monsieur du Bois, living in the Strand, to desire him he would give leave for the Son of this Examinate to go home with his Mother, upon occasion of speaking with an English Man, that this Examinate could not Understand, her Son speaking both French and English: the Youth being an Apprentice to the said Dubois, and of Age, Thirteen Years and an half. This Examinate took her Son with her home to her Lodgings, in Expectation of the Englishman before spoken of, who did not come.

This Examinate fetched her Son on purpose to have his Assistance about the conveying away of her Husband's Body; and this Examinate told her Son of a great Calamity that was fallen out; which the Child was very much surprized at, and being shewed the Body, ready to sink

down at the Spectacle. But this Examinate put the Boy to an Oath forty times over, to say nothing of it; and he swore he would be torn in Pieces first: And asked this Examinate, Mother, What will you do? shift for your self, and go out of the Land, for if you are once taken you'l never get off. This Informant answering, She had no Mony for a Voyage, and she could think of no way better than to cut off the Quarters, and disperse the Parts in several Places, so as People should not know whose Body it was: Besides, That she her self could carry them off, and dispose of them much better, her Son saying, That he was afraid to meddle with the carrying of them.
This Examinate hereupon, about Four or Five that Afternoon, having taken a Resolution of cutting off the Quarters to make it more Portable, took a Knife, and first cut off the Head, after that the Arms; and then the Thighs, and last the Leggs, some Drops of Blood coming from the Neck, but very little or none at all from the rest.

The Quarters being cut off by Eight in the Evening, or thereabouts, this Examinate bethought her self how to convey them away; and first took up the Body which she put into a Piece of Linnen, and carried it before her in her Petticoat: The Examinate passed through Castle-Street into Drury-Lane, and thence into Parker's-Lane, and so among the Dung-hills, and there left it, her Son following, to give notice if any Body came.

The Body being thus disposed of, this Examinate, with her Son, went back, and took the Thighs in a Linnen Cloth; this Examinate carrying them likewise, and her Son following in like manner, as before; and this Examinate threw them into a House of Office at the Savoy, and immediately went back with her Son again, and fetched the Leggs and the Arms, her Son following her to the Savoy again, and put them also into the House of Office.


The Quarters being carried away, as above, and only the Head remaining, this Examinate advised with her Son, What they should do with the Head? who advised her to throw it into the Water: But this Examinate was then afraid it would be found and known: And said, She would rather cast it into the House of Office of a Friend of hers, meaning De Fresneau, a Fringe-Maker, over against the Savoy, to which Place she went accordingly, her Son following her, and cast it into the Second House of Office, there being two belonging to the Place.

And saith, That upon Tuesday Morning last, Mary Potter (or Pottron) the Daughter of this Examinate, came to this Examinates Lodgings, and in Discourse said something to this Purpose, What is become of Hobry, where is he? Yard says he is gone for the Indies. This Examinate made Answer, That she had not seen him for Four or Five Days. The Examinate put her Daughter off at first, but came soon after to tell her the Truth of the Matter.

And saith, That this Examinate, thereupon, told her Daughter the whole Truth of the Matter, as is reported above; her said Daughter ready to fall down at the hearing of it; and transported with Astonishment, asking this Examinate, What they should do to keep it Private; this Examinate charging her to say nothing of it; and the Daughter replying; That she would be burned first, but that if it were any other Person than her Mother, she would discover it her self; but since her Mother was concerned, she would never open her Lips of it.

And this Examinate being interrogated, How it came to pass that she, this Examinate, being of the Communion of the Church of Rome, came to throw the Quarters of her Husband into a House of Office at the Savoy, which was a way to bring so great a Scandal upon the Religion she professed, by laying the Murther at the Door of the Professors of that Religion? This Examinate maketh Answer, That she had no Thoughts in what she did, as to that Matter,



more than to part the Limbs and the Body, and hoped the Water might carry them away.
And being interrogated, If any other Person whatsoever, beside the Persons herein named, was privy to this Practice upon her Husband, or assisting to the Conveying away of the Body; this Examinate answereth, That there was no Person privy to the Secret, nor any Person assisting to it, besides the Persons within mentioned.

Jo. Ridley. Mary Hobry.



Capt' Die & Anno, supradict' coram me,

Ro. L'Estrange.



I have heard the Information of Mrs. Mary Hobry, consisting of Two Sheets and one Page, read in English, and have signed the Papers, and do hereby declare, That I have truly Expounded them in French to Mrs. Mary Hobry, according to the best of my Knowledge.

Jo. Ridley.

J'avoue que ce qui est cerit sur ces deux feuilles de Papier, & une page, est veritable; selon ce que Monsieur Ridley me l'a expliquee, en Francoise.

Marie Hobry.



POSTSCRIPT.
HEre's a Just and a Punctual Account of all the Informations, in the Cause of Mary Hobry; and I do here Appeal to the Informants themselves, That I have dealt Candidly and Conscientiously, both in the Publishing and in the Taking of them. Nay, to prevent the uttermost Spite of Envy and Calumny, they had almost all of them, as many Witnesses to the Fairness of them, as the Room would hold, where I took them: And so far from Extorting any Evidence, That the Mother's and the Son's, were purely Confession. The Woman, 'tis true, was examined in Private, for fear of any unseasonable Discovery of what she might declare: But before I put so much as one Question to her, I rendred her so particular an Account of the Points in Evidence against her, that she gave her self for Lost, without any Hope, either of an Acquittal, or of a Pardon; and so frankly told me from Point to Point, the whole Series of the Narration, as it is here set down. But still that which stuck with other People, stuck with Me: That is to say, How all this could be done without Complices. Now the Boy's Story lay as yet in the Dark, and his doubling in his Tale, gave manifestly to understand, That there was a Mystery still Ʋndiscovered. He denyed all upon Friday. Upon Saturday, his Mother declared her self. Upon Sunday the Boy denyed all again, 'till upon the Hint given him, of his dining with his Mother; her drawing the Curtain of the Bed, and shewing him the Body of his Murdered Father, upon that Monday when the Body was quartered; he fell a Weeping, and told an orderly Story, without any Mincing of Matters, from the very Act of quartering him, to the disposing of the Body, the Limbs and the Head, into those Places where they were afterwards found. This Relation of his is so agreeable to his Mother's, in the


Order and Manner of it, that it is almost impossible to be False: And to any one that duly considers the Bulk and Weight of the Trunk of an ordinary Man, without either Head, Arms, Thighs or Leggs, a Woman's carrying such a Burthen in the Truss of her Petticoat, will be found no greater a Wonder, than he shall see ten times over in oue Days Walk betwixt the Old Exchange and Westminster.
In the Womans Story, I have done all the Right that Honestly I could to the Compassionable Condition of an Unhappy Wretch, but without Extenuating the Horror of the Wickedness. I have, since that time, Enquir'd into the Humour and Character of the Husband; and his Acquainance report him at all hands to have been a Libertine and Debauchee to the Highest Degree, but Drunk or Sober, without any Malice. This is, in Fine, an Impartial Report of the Case. It falls to the Midwife's Lot to Suffer Alone, but if she had stood her Tryal, so that the Evidence against her had been left to take its Course, it would not have gone much better with some of her Companions, than it did with the Miserable Creature her self.

    THE END.
