
A pittilesse Mother. That most vnnaturally at one time, murthered two of her owne Children at Acton within sixe miles from London upon holy Thursday last 1616. The ninth of May. Beeing a Gentlewoman named Margret Vincent, wife of Mr. Iaruis Vincent, of the same towne.
With her examination, confession and true discouery of all proceedings in the said bloody accident.
Whereunto is added Andersons Repentance, which which was executed at Tiburne the 18. Of May being Witson-Eue. Written in the time of his prisonment in Newgate.
A pittilesse Mother. That most unnaturall at one time, murthered two of her owne Chillderen, at Acton within sixe miles of London, upon holy Thursday last 1616. The 9 of May being a Gentlewoman named Margret Vincent, wife of Mr. Iarvis Vincent of the same Towne. 
With her examination, confession and trew discouery of all the proceedings in the said bloody accedent.
How easie are the waies unto evill, and how soone are our mindes (by the Devils inticement) withdrawne from goodnes, Leviathan, the Archenemy of mankinde hath set such and so many bewitching snares to intrap us, that unlesse we continually stand watching with carefull diligence to shun them, wee are like to cast the principall substance of our reputation, upon the wracke of his ensnaring engines. As for example, a Gentlewoman, ere now fresh in memory, presents her owne ruine amongst us, whose lives overthwo may well serve for a cleare looking Glasse to see a womans weakness in, how soone and apt she is wonne unto wickednes, not onely to the bodies overthrow, but the soules danger. God of his mercy, keepe us all from the like wilfulnes.
At Acton, some sixe miles westward from London, this unfortunate Gentlewoman dwelled, named Margret Vincent, the wife of M. Iarvis Vincent Gentleman, who by unhappy destiny marked to mischance, I here now make the subject of my pen, and publish her hard hap unto the world, that all others may shun the like occasions by which she was overthrowne.
This Margret Vincent before named, of good parentage, borne in the County of Hartford, at a towne named Rickmansworth: her name from her parents Margret Day, of good education, graced with good parts from her youth, that promised suceeding vertues in her age, if good luck had served, for being discreete, civell, and of a modest conversation, she was preferred in marriage to this Gentleman M. Vincent, with whome she lived in good estimation, well beloved, and much esteemed of all that knewe her, for her modest and seemley carriage, and so might have continued to her old age, had not this bloody accident committed upon her owne children blemished the glory of the same. 
But now marke (gentle Reader) the first entrance intno her lives overthrow, and consider with thy selfe how strangely the Divell here set in his foote, and what running struments hee use din his assaylements. The Gentlewoman being witty, and of a ripe understanding, delivered much conference in religion, and being careful as it seemed of her soules happiness, many times resorted to Divines to have instructions to salvation (little thinking to fall into the hands of Romaine Wolves (as she did) and to have the sweete Lambe, her soule, thus intangled by their persawsions.
Twelve or fowreteene yeares had she lived in marriage with her husband well be loved, having for their comforts divers pretty children between them, with all other thinges in plenty, as helath, riches, and such like, to increase concord, and no necessity that might be hinderance to contentment, yet at last there was such trappes and enginis that her quet was caught, and her discontent set at liberty: her oppinion of the true faith (by the subtill sophistry of some close Papists) was converted to a blinde beliefe of bewitching heresie, for they have such charming perswasions that hardly the female kinde can escape their inticements, of which weake sex they continually amke price of and by them lay plots to insnare others, as they did by this deceived Gentlewoman, for she, good soule, being made a bird of their owne feather, desired to beget more of the same kinde, and from time to time made (perswasive arguments to win her husband to the same opinion, and deemed it a merritorious deede to charge his conscience with that infectious burthen of Romish oppinions, affirming by many false reasons that his former life had beene led in blindenes, and that she was appointed by the holy Church to shew him the light of true understanding: these and such like were the instructions she had given her to intangle her husband in, and win him if she might to her binde heresies.
But hee, good Gentlemen, over deepely gournded in the right faith of Religion, then to be thus so easily removed, grew regardles of her perswasions accounting them vaine and vrivolous, and she undutifull to make so fond an attempt, many times snubing her with some few unkinde speech, which used in her heart a purpose of more extreamity, for having learned this maxim of their religion, that it was merritorious yea and pardonable, to take away the lives of any opposing Protestants were it of any degree whatsoever, in which resoluton or bloody purpose the long stood upon, and at last (onely by the Divels temptation) resolved the ruine of her owne children, affirming to her conscience these reasons, that they were brought up in blindes and darkesome errours, hoodwinckt (by her husbands instructions) from the true light, and therefore to save their soule (as she vainely throught) she purposed to become a Tygerous Mother, and so wolvishly to commit the murther of her owne flesh and blood, in which oppinion she stedfastly continued, never relenting according to nature, but casting about to finde time and place for so wicked a deed, which unhappily fell out as after followed.
It so chanced that a discord arose betweene the two townes of Acton and Wilsden and a certaine common, bordering betweene them, where the towne of Acton as it seems having the more right unto it, by watching defended it a time from the others Cattle, whereupon the women of the same towne, having likewise a willingness to assist their husbands in the same defence, appointed a day for the like purpose, which was the Assention day last past, commonly called holy Thursday, falling upon the 9. Of the last passed month of May, which day (as will chance would have it) was the fatall time appointed for her to act this bloody tragedie, whereon she made her husband fatherlesse of two as pretty children as ever came from womans wombe.
Upon the Assention day aforesaid, after the time of Divine service, the women of the towne being gathered together about their promised businesse, some of them came to Mistris Vincent, and according to promise desired her company, who having a minde as then more setled on bloudy purposes then countrey occasions, fayned an excuse of ill at ease, and not halfe well, desired pardon of them, and offring her Maide in her behalfe, who being a good apt and willing Seruant was accepted of, and so the Townes-women, misdoubting no such hard accident as after happened, proceeded in their aforesaid defences, the Gentlewomans husband being also from home, in whose absence, by the fury and assistance of the Diuell, she inacted this wofull accident in forme and manner following.
This Mistris Vincent, now deserving no name of Gentlewoman, being in her owne house fast lockt up, onely with her two small Children, the one of the age of five yeares, the other hardly two yeares old, unhappily brought to that age to be made away by their owne Mother who by nature should have cherisht them with her owne body, as the Pellican that pecks her own brest to feed her young ones with her blood: but the more cruell then the Viper, the invenomd Serpent, the Snake, or any Beast whatsoever, against all kind, takes away those lives to whom she first gave life.
Being alone (as I said before) afflicted by the Deuill, shee tooke the youngest of the two, having a countenance so sweet that might have begd mercy at a tirants hand, but shee regarding neither the pretty smiles it made, nor the dadling before the mothers face, nor anything it could doe, but like a fierce and bloudy Medea, shee took it violently by the throat, and with a Garter taken from her legge, making thereof a noose and putting the same about her childs sweet necke, shee in a wrathfull manner drew the same to close together, that in a moment she parted the soule and body, and iwthout any terror of Conscience, she layd the liveles Infant, still remaining warme upon her bed, and with a relentles countenance looking theron, thinking thereby she had done a deed of immortallity: Oh blinded ignorance! Oh inhumane devotion! Purposing by this to merit heaven, she hath deserved, (without true repentance) the reward of damnation.
This Creature not deserving Mothers name, as I said before, not yet glutted, nor sufficed with these few drops of Innocent blood, nay her owne deare blood used in her owne body, cherished in her own wombe with much dearnes full forty weekes: not satisfied I say with this one murther, but she would headlong run unto a second and to heape more vegeance upon her head, she came unto the elder Child of that small age that it could hardly descerne a Mothers Cruelty, nor understand the fatgall destiny fallen uppon the other before, which as it were seemd to smile uppon her as though it begd for pitty, but all in vaine for so tirrannous was her heart, that without all motherly pitty, shee made it drinke of the same bitter cup, as shee had done the other: for with her garter she likewise pressed out the sweet ayre of life and laid it by the other upon the bed sleeping in death together, a fight that might have burst an iron heart in sunder, and made the very Tiger to relent.
These two pretty children being thus murthered, without all hope of recouery, she began to growe desperate and still to desire more and more blood, which had bene a third murther of her owne baes, had it not beene abroad at Nurse, and by that meanes could not be accomplished, whereupon she fell into a violent rage, and purposing as then to shew the like mischiefe upon her selfe, being of this strange opinion, that she her selfe by thta deed had made Saints of her two children in heaven, so taking the same garter that was the instrument of their deaths, and putting the noose thereof about her owne neck she strove therewith to have strangled her selfe, but nature being eake, and flesh fraile, she was not able to doe it: whereupon in a more violent fury (still animated foreward by instigation of the Deuill) she ran into the yard purposing there in a pond to have drowned her selfe, having not one good motion of Salvation left within her.
But heere good Reader markt what a happy prevention chanced to preserve her in hope of Repentance, which at that time stayd her from that desperate attempt, the mayd by great fortune, at the very instant of this deed of desperation, returned from the field of Common where shee had left most of the neighbours, and comming in at the backeside, perceuing her mistrix by her gastly countenance, that all was not well, and that some hard chance had happened her or hers, demaunded how the Children did: Oh Dan (quoth she) never oh never shalt thou see thy Tom more, and withall gave the amid a boxe uppon the care, at which she laid hold uppon her Mistris, calling out for helpe into the Towne, whereat divers came running in, and after them her husband, within a while after, who finding what had hapned, were all so amazed together, that they knew not what to doe, some wrung their hands, some wept, some called out for Neighbours, so generall a feare was strooke amongst them all, that they knew not whether to goe nor run, especially the good Gentleman her husband, that seeing his owne Children slaine, murthered by hs wife, and their owne Mother, a deed beyond nature and huamnity, in which extasie of griefe, at last hee broke out in these speeches. Oh Margret, Margret, how often haue I perswaded thee from this damned Opinion, this damned Opinion, that hath undone us all. Whereuppon with a gastly looke and fearefull eye shee replyed thus, Oh Iaruis, this had neuer beene done, it thou hadst beene ruld, and by mee converted, but what is done, is past, for they are Saints in heaven, and I nothing at all repent it. These and such like words passed betwixt them, till such time as the Constable, and others of the townesmen came in, and according to law carried her before a Justice of the peace, which is a Gentleman named Maister Roberts of Wildstett, who understanding these haynous offences rightly according to law and courte of justice, made a Mittimus for her conveyance to Newgate in London, there to remaine till the Sessions of her tryall: yet this is to bee remembred that by examination shee voluntarily confessed the fact, how she murthered them to save their soules, and to make them Saints in heaven, that they might not be brought up in blindnesse, to their owne damnation. Oh wilfull heresie, that ever Christian shoulde in Conscience bee thus miscarried, but to be short she proved herself to be an obstainate Papist, for there was faund about her necke a Crucifixe, with other reliques which she then wore about her: that by the Justice was commanded to be taken away, and an English bible to be delivered her to read, the which she with great stubbornesse threw from her, not willing as once to look thereuppon, nor to heare any divine comforts delivered thereout for the succour of her Soule. 
But now againe to her conveyance towards prison, it being Assention Day and neere the closing of the evening, too late as then to be sent to London, she was by Commandment put to the Constables keeping for that night, who with a strong watch lodged her in his own house till morning, which was at the Bell in Acton where hee dwelled, who shewing the part and duty of a good Christian with divers other of his Neighbours, all that same night plyed her with good admonititons, tending to repentance, and seeking with great paines to convert her from those erronious Opinions which shee so stubbornely stood in, but it was little avayled, for she seemed in outward shew so obstinate in Arguments, that shee made small reckoning of repentance, nor was a whit sorrowful for the murder committed uppon her children but maintained the deed to be meritorious and of high desert.
Oh that the blood of her owne body should have no ore power to pearce remorse into her iron naturd heart, when Pagan women that know not God nor have any feeling of his Deity will shun to commit bloodshed, much more of their owne seede: the CAniballs that eate one another will spare the fruites of their own bodies, the Savages will doe the l ike, yea every beast and fowle hath a feeling of nature, and according to kinde will cherish their young ones, and shall woman, nay a Christian woman, Gods own Image, be more unnaturall then Pagan, Caniball, Savage, Beast or Fowle, it even now makes a trembling feare to beset me, to thinke what an error this unhappy Gentlewoman was bewitched with, a witchcraft begot by hell and mursed by the Romish Sect, from which inchantment God of heaven defend us.
But now againe to our purpose, the next day being Friday, and the tenth of May, by the Cuntacle M. Dighton of the Bel in Acton with other of his neighbours, she was conveyed to Newgate in London, where lodging in the Mastersside, many people resorted to her, as well as her acquaintance as others and as before, with sweete and comfortable perswasions, practiced to beget repentance and to be sorry for that which she had committed, but blindnes so prevailed, that she continued still in her former stubborness, affirming (contrary to all perswasive reasons) that she had done a deede of charity in marking them Saints in heaven, that otherwise might have lived to destruction in hell, and likewise refused to look upon any Protestant booke, as Bible, Meditation, Prayer booke, and such like, affirming them to be eronious, and dangerous for any Romish Catholique to looke in, such were the violent opinons she had beene instructed in, and with such fervencis therein she continued tha tno diswasions could withold her from them, no not death it selfe, being here possessed with such bewitching wilfulnes.
In this danger of minde continued she all Fryday, Saturday and Sunday, the sessions drawing neere, there came certine Godly preachers unto her, who prevailed with her by celstiall consolations, that he rheart by degrees became a little mollified, and in nature somewhat repentant for these her most heynous offences. 
Her soule a little leaning to salvation, incouraged these good men to perseuere and goe forward in so Godly a labour, who at last brought her to this oppinion, as it was iustified by one that came from her in Newgate upon the Munday before the Sessions, that she earnestly believed she had eternally deserved hell fire for the murther of her children, and that she so earnestly repented the deed, saying, that if they were alive againe, not all the world should procure her to doe it: Thus was she truely repentant, to which (no doubt) but by the good meanes of these preachers she was wrought unto.
And now to come to  conclusion, as well of the discourse as of her life the deserved death, and both Law and Justice hath awarded her the same, for her examination and free confession needed no Jewry, her owne tonge proved a sufficient evidence, and her conscience a witnes that condemned her, her judgement and execution she received with a patient minde, her soule no doubt hath got a trew penitent desire to be in heaven, and the blood of her two innocent Children so wilfully shed (according to all charitable judgements) is washed away by the mercies of God: forgive and forget her good Gentlewomen, shee is not the first that hath beene blemished with blood, nor the last that will make a husband wifelesse, her offence was begot by a strange occasion, but buried I hope with true repentance.
Thus Countrymen of England have you heard the ruine of a Gentlewoman, who if Popish perswasions had not beene, the world could not have spotted her with the finallest marke of infamy, but had carried the name of a vertue even unto her grave: and for a warning unto you all,, by her example, take heeded how you put confidence unto that dangerous sect, for they surely will deceive you.
Finis.

Andersons Repentance who, was executed at Tiburne the 18. Of May being Whitson euen. 1616.
Written in the time of his imprisonment in Newgate.
Sigh, for my musicke was a Syrens song,
A sayre decent to Shadow me in griefe:
Wast, saide I sayre? Alas, I cald it wrong.
Vlisses know the Syrens danger chiefe,
Was when she sung to lul a man asleepe,
Then fashioned she to sing to make men weepe.
But I had stopt myne eares whe Syrens sung,
And bound my selfe unto Ulisses mast:
Or had I thought, alas, I am but young,
Too much is all to, venture on a cast,
I might haue liu’d, and from all dangers free,
Where now I dye, for life is not for mee.
Barkt in a Pinnis made by selfe conceite,
Affection CAptaine, ouerwhelmde with care,
Destruction neare, whom I espied too late,
Incounter giuen by soule and black dispaire:
My Pinnis sunke, and fense all were dimme,
No hope of life, thought still I triue to swimme.
Breake throbbing heart, eyes gush out floods of teares, 
Melt flesh from bone, let veynes and arthures rend:
Fly soule, and search redresse to cure thy feares,
Elizium fields cannot afford one friende,
All death, all hell, my hands with griefe I wring,
Mercy may cure: forgiue fayre Englands King.
I cannot speake but kill my selfe with wordes:
I cannoe think but i my conscience wound.
Law stabbes mee still in euery part with swords.
Justice commands in Fetters I be bound,
And for I was, as I haue gracelesse beene,
No life unlesse thy mercy gracious King.
Confounding sadnesse like a load of lead,
Chilles all my blood and makes my sinnewes shrinke.
Revenge quoth wrong, let Rigor stand in stead,
Death fill shte cup, and saith that I must drinke:
Still pitty pleades and thinketh death’s a sting,
Might it so please thy mercy gracious King.
I all confused, and in confusion wrapt,
Implore thy mercy prostarate on my face,
Youngling was I and nouice like intrapt,
Repentance, away shall follyes chafe, no blemish blot, I hate any such thing, 
If I find grace and mercy of my king.
Villaines auant, helhounds you are by kind,
Offensiue Varlets to a Common state,
Shame to offend so meeke a King in minde:
Presuming swaines he doth your vilenes hate,
Liue as you ought, and braue it not with bragges,
Least law condemne you in your proudest ragges.
Awake for shame, and lift your eyelids vp,
Sleep not secure nor dreams of doing wrong,
If Iustice strike you cannot change her cup,
Death being doome, you fall for he is strong,
And then you curse, because you did not cease:
To vexe your King with trroubling Countries peace.
Shed not the blood of any, for you know
The high commander, God, doth so command:
Whose law to keepe thy Soueraigne doth intreat,
Thy health it is Gods Law to vunderstand:
Obeying God, God shall all harmes preuent,
Keeping his peace thy King is well content.
Abate Presumption, sinne is not a jest,
Though God forbeare, yea will he surely strike:
God made thee man, make not they selfe a beast,
Vaine man that in the worst dost take delight.
Ah stoope betimes, take well what well is spoken,
Least thou repent when as thy pitchers broken.
In budding Youth when yeares begin to bloome,
And corage flowers the blossoms of the mind:
Fruit wanting grace fierce thunderclaps can doome,
With lightening slasht, els beaten with the winde.
Fuit all unkind, as bad as bad may be,
And curst by God for all accursed tree.
Shame barraine branches for no fruit you beare,
Your leaues are greene, deceitfull are your twigs:
Christ gaue the curse then dread and stand in feare,
The tree did wither for it bare no figs:
Beauties deceit causd Christ himselfe come nye,
Seeing no fruit he curst the tree to dye.
Might sorrowing sobs with teares redeeme whats past,
Or floods of teares suffice for foredone ills:
Behold my lookes with discontent orecast,
Whose heart doth rend, whose eyes forth fountaines stills:
And yet all this and all that longs thereto,
Is small to that which I intend to doe.
My heart through flesh shall issue sweating greefe,
And scald my bones with salt and brinish teares:
Through flesh and bone heartes want shall begge reliefe,
On bended knees till bones my flesh out weares.
Flesh, bone and hart consumed in mourns for sinne,
Still all to osmall, anew I must begin.
Whole lumpe of flesh, my selfe flesh blood and bone,
Earths dust, clayes lumpe, all made of ash and clay,
All these are I, or else I were alone,
And soule with these injoynd to greatst dismay.
Earths dust, clayes lumpe, ash, flesh and bone abused,
Soule quite resolvd and yet no way excused.
Weepe flesh for sinne, soule mourne with teares diuine,
Or quell submissive more than nature wrought:
Gods perfect image, earth to heauens combine,
Soules prison earth, soules mournes, earths happies fought,
Yet soule nere cease, but dround the earth with teares,
Till he graunt pardon whom thy sorrow heares.
Diuine celestiall maker of Earths globe,
Crownd King of Kings, most mighty power of powers:
Iust in thy judgement cleare in scarlet robe:
Sweet of all sweets in judgements gaul to sowers,
Sweet sorrow soures with teares, if thou think meet,
Then salve of sores with Balme shall make me sweet.
Soules chiefest dread, and bodies bitterst morne,
Deathes graue, deepe hell all agonizing feares:
Accusing thoughtes hearts throb, hopes all forlone,
Element all earth, inflamed soule, heauens spheare,
Body and soule to teares resolue you still,
Till iust of iusts do pardon all mine ill.
And all Law, in Body, Dust, Earth, Clay,
Element of ash, conceiud and borne in sinne:
Old Adams Chide, Eves Apple plust decay,
Lives Tack, soules losse not thy mourning a line;
But gush out shewers to teares in midst distres,
Harts moane, soules groane, in one both beg redres.
Ayre, Flesh, Life, Soule, congluitinate in one,
Word from his mouth, who living soule did give:
Maker of all, all made by God alone,
Breath, life, and death, by whome I only liue:
All, all in all, his mercy still appeares,
And I of him, his mercy beg with teares.
Great god remit the follies of my youth,
Dread King forgiue, I will not more offend:
Not god, no King, but I will serve in trueth,
Til ATrapos the daies of life shall end:
And at mine end my God shall haue the praise,
Beggining of him to lengthen long his daies.
Bodies deathes feare, is no cause of my moane,
But endles feare of everlasting death.
I wish no live for Countres good alone,
To serue my king all daies of vital breath:
And if his mercy bare life extended,
My life is his, till death my life hath ended.
Vnworthy far such sauour to entreate,
All is too small, all done that I am able:
Yet for thy grace in mercy is so greate,
Giue me the crumbes that doe fall from thy Table:
Who els doth starue, imprisoned in griefe,
No foode tast I, save only thy releife.
If Maudlins teares did ouer Christs feet wet,
And sweet her soule with true repentant teares?
If peters mourning streames did mercy get
For all his sinnes though he his Christ forsweares:
My sad laments abounding from mine eyes,
Sweet King accept, and heare my mournfull cries.
A wounded Soule, a broken contrite heart,
Creepes in greatest throng, thy ventures hem to touch:
The oyle of life, King of my life impart,
Though sinnes by great, thy mercies twice as much:
Thy word my foode, for want of foode growne leane,
Spotted and soule, till Hysop make me cleane.
My body prisond for my ill don deeds,
Lawes iustice calles me to my guerdon death,
Except faire iustice all in all exceeds,
My vitall spirts all must pant for breath:
King of my life be not so sore offended,
But let me liue, and all shall be amended.
I will redeeme my time with griefe and woe,
Ile aske forgivenesse both of God and Man:
The like offences neuer will I doe, 
But still redresse with all the speede I can:
Changing my selfe, my manners, minde and all,
Lawding his name defends me from deaths fall.
Like ESops Dog, I fondly lost my bone,
Vaine hope of more, hath lost my selfe and all:
In floods of teares Ile helpe Narcissus mone,
Who for a shaddow did in water fall:
The shadow his, which all to late he found,
So I deceaud, am with Narcissus drownd.
Learne of the Emet, equall her in paine,
Shame that a Worme in vertue shoulde surpasse:
Die to all sinne, her fauour to attaine, and be not dull, like to the spurgald Asse,
Who can, and will not: for your willes are hidden,
Worths to obscurd, thrice worthy to be chidden.
But why delate i from my selfe to you?
Its I that mourne, I languish and lament,
Incarcered in loathsom Prison now,
Hard manacled to bide all discontent:
My thoughtes disgrast, my hopes linkt to deaths fetter,
My drinke salt teares, becasue I liud no better.
The description of Newgate, and the Prisoners lying there.
When I am hyngry, then I feed on care,
And when I rest it is in Plutoes den:
My bed is griefe, my Pillow is dispaire, my Chamber-mates, all miserable men,
Whose hopes deceaud and yelding to illusion,
Will, wanting grace, hath wrought me like confusion.
When Morpheus pitty moues me to a nap,
And Vulcans clattering yron chaynes awake me:
When Tytans mantles spread on sorros lap,
Horror, Hells furie, sweares heel no forsake me.
Yet slumbring whiles as Morpheus care or equels,
Waking, me thinks I see a thousand Hels.
And when Aurora lifteth up her eyes,
And bids faire Phebus welcom from the West,
Then i behold more then whole worlds surmise,
Men quick in hell, in torments and vnrest,
Some pine for hunger, some in cold cheynes tyed, 
And ratts like diuels do pray on some that dyed.
No misery but I bothe feele and see,
My cup is full of woes unto the brimme,
My pen cannot describe them as they bee:
Amidst distresse, yet will I call on him,
In pittie shines, whole glory mercy is:
Freeing my Soule from Hell to heighest blis.
Arabian Phenix kindling vertues fire,
Let mercy flame to thaw my frozen woes:
Most gratious King, quench out all coales of ire,
Els Soule consumd to cinders, sunderd goes:
Shine still in mercy bright as sunshine rales,
Life-giuing King, my soule shall giue thee praise.
The Publicans surprest with weight of sin
Durst not presume to cast his eyes on hie:
Gazing on Earth, his herat did neuer lim,
But Miserere loudly did he cry.
Peccavi Lord, this Sinners Soule confessed:
Whose note I sing, that haue no lesse transgressed.
The wandring Sonne, whose portion was mispent
With ryots, sursets, quaffing boales of vice,
Dainties all deere: in hunger now content
To feed with Hogs, this Prodigall not nice,
All tatters torne, shakt out of coulors fine,
Him need compels to keepe a strangers Swine.
The ground contents this restles to ly on,
Whome beddes of downe did whileome discontent,
 His head vp bolstered with some hill or Stone:
The cloudes a covering to his field-bed lent,
Where for y man oreplunged wofull lies,
His courtaines cold, and canopie the skies.
Remunerating with himselfe the cause
Of want, of woe, of hunger, and of colde:
Offence to God, the breaking of his lawes.
Then breake out teares he could no longer holde,
But weeping ran, till he his father sees,
In true repentance, bending both his knees.
And with loud orgaine of a fainting Soule,
Father he sayed, I haue gainst Heauen offended,
Gainst Earth, & thee, whole power doth sin controule,
No worthy Sonne, so he his faint speach ended:
Yet still in silence pearle of teares drild foorth,
Till fathers welcome compted him of worth
His fathers heart in pitty then relents, 
About his neck he chingd his aged armes,
Glad in his heart his Sonne in heart repents,
Receiues him home, and with a kisse, he warnes
That all his friends should feast at his free cost,
And welcome home his Sonne so long was lost.
Thrise happy Sonne, whose teares renews his grace,
And sweet repentance was it home thee brought:
Threefold thrice double happie Fathers face,
A Sonne to finde, whom thou so long had lost:
And sonne most happie in a Father kinde,
Who being lost did such a Father finde.
The selfesame balme is cure for my great woe,
The same repentance makes me Abba crie.
My speach doth faint, and I can say no more.
Mercie redresse, else languishing I die:
Sweet sweet of sweets, blest balme, chiefe ease of paine,
Graunt mee my home, I will not stray againe.
No more shall folly hold my witts in thrall,
Wisedome shall ransome Will from Follies bands:
Experience shall forewarne mee Syrens all.
Nor shal Dispare forewarne mee Syrens all.
Nor shal Dispaire, touch Conscience with foule hands
But with repentance will I liue and die,
In vertues bower, where shame can not come nie.
With sinne my soule shall be no more opprest,
My God and King to serue, shall be my care:
No longer shall my thoughts be unrest,
But dayly shun the place where wicked are.
Discretion aye shall guide my Heart aright
To shine mongst men like worthy lampe of light.
My cullerd Suites will I exchange for black,
Til scarlet sinnes be all as white as snow:
On mee swift Time shall neuer turne his back,
Nor shall his taske be more my Tayres to mow:
But with repentance, furrow hopes forlorne,
Till God giue grace I shafe vp better corne.
My words are vowes, beleeue them all of worth,
I cannot paint I ahue forgot to gloaze:
The swearing tongue I haue quite cut it foorth,
What I haue been, cease further to impose:
And for I am as I was not before,
So God be Iudge, for men can iudge no more.
The life I led I loath thereon to thinke:
Say that I was, I hate my selfe therefore:
Giue him not Gaule that beggeth for a drinke:
Who else is kild, what need you stab him more,
My wounds are deepe, yet Phisicks cure may spie,
A salue for soare, or else I surely die.
If I be betrayed by him preserueth all,
From death to life a Lazarus from his graue.
A Pharaos vassall, a persecuting Saul,
But neyther now, but as my God woule haue,
A soule redeemd, and ransomd with his blood,
May liue, because the Lord hath thought it good.
And if I liue my life I will decore,
Ejecting sinne, sweet vertue to install:
Giuer of grace, graunt grace I sinne no more,
Establish mee that I doe neuer fall,
To thee my heart my life and Soule I giue,
Who after death eternally makes liue.
Direct my pathes, euen for thy mercies sake,
Guide though my steps to shun all sinfull waies: 
Keepe me from sleepe, in thee still let me wake,
To laude thy name all time of earthly daies:
And when I earth shall be resolved to dust,
Graunt that my Soule may liue among the iust.
Finis.
William Anderson.
