A true Relation Of the most Horrid and Barbarous murders committed by Abigall Hill of St. Olaves Southwark, on the persons of soure Infants; Parish Children, whom she undertooke to Nurse, and her most deceitfull borrowing of other Children of her poore Acquaintance, whom on every Quarter day she would bring to the Over-seers of the Parish, and receive her Quarters pay for them, as if they had bin the same Children which had bin committed to her charge to Nurse.

For which most cruell Murders, being convicted and condemned at the Sessions held at the Old-Baily. Wednesday Decemb. 15. Shee was accordingly Executed on Wednesday, Decemb. 12. in Cheapside neare unto Woodstreet.

Together with a true Account of the strange and stubborn end she made, and her jeering of her Executioner at the houre of her Death.

And a Caveat to all other Women that are suspected for the like unnaturall and most unmercifull Practises.

Decemb LONDON, Printed for F. Coles, 1658.

An exact Relation of the most horrid Murders committed on foure Children, by their cruell Foster mother Abigall Hill, of St. Olaves Southwarke, &c.
The first Sin remarkable in the posterlly of Adam was a crying Sinne. The bloud of Abel cryed vnto Heaven for bengeance. No doubt, but Cain before committed many actuall fransgressions Sin lyeth at the doore saith GOD; Mark what hast. sinne, and the punishment thereof do make to overtake the sinner; wee shall find Sin lying at the doore when there was scarce a doore in the world.

The shedding of innocent Blood is a Sin that lyeth at the doore of the Conscience, and knocketh thereat as lowd as


Thunder; but custome in sinning both take away the sence of Sinue. In a man or woman of a bloody Spirit, one murder makes way for another her Conscience was seared as was this wiched womans who is the subject of our present discourse; There are some who delight in Murder, and the Ruine of the world and these persons though they thirst after Fame and immortality, and after their deaths have Monuments raised to eternize their Names, yet they goe in an indirect and crosse way both to GOD and Nature; It to the endeavour of Nature to preserbe it self; now, what cnn be more contrary to this indeavour then to destroy one another which to the way to destroy Nature: And we shall find God so tender in shedding of Blood, that his Commandements are alwaies and altogether expresse against it; David was not permitted to build the Temple unto God, because he had in his blood, although it was red only in the bloud of his Enemies, and the Enemies of God.
The Children of Israel were forbidven to eat any thing in which was the bloud, and the same mandate was giver

also the Christians; Although St. Iames and the Elders of Ierusalem determined, that the converted Gentiles should not observe the lawes of the Jewes, yet they were expresly commanded to keep themselves from Bloud, and from that which is strangled, they should be so farre from the shedding of the bloud of one another, that they should refraine from the blond of the Creatures allowed by God for the nourishment of men, that was shed.
And this shedding of the Bloud of one another, hath been so odious to God that he alwayes left some tokens of his high displeasure against it, and the Murderet hath seldom escaped undiscovered or unpunished.

For besides the checks of the Conscience which flasheth forth terror, and flies in the face of the Murderers, we shall find that it hath pleased God oftentimes in a miraculous manner to make discoveries of Murders committed, sometimes by Binds somtimes by Beasts, and somtimes by the appaition of the Person murdered, of which Histories can furnish vs with abundant examples, and no ages have been exempted from giving many

remarkable demonstrations of it.
We need not goe into forraine Countries to fetch Examples to prove this truth. It is not yet two yeares since the notorious Murder was committed by Nathaniel Butler on the person of his dearest friend and companion Iohn Knight; The bloody designe being put in execution, how was his Conscience tormented with the horror and apprehenston of his guilt, we shall find it was so much startled that he was not able either to tarry at home or to fly abroad; what a deepe impresson did the blood of his friend leave upon his soule. How many teares did he shed to purge it. How unquiet was his soule, how perplered was that body wch could find no rest but by death only.

This so startied him that he could injoy no intermissions, no respits of any comfort but by Death only, and in this manner many being tormented in their Consciences do need no further discoveries, it being impossible for them to be at quiet untill they doe discover themselves, and offer themselves as Sacrifices to that Justice which they have violated.

Sometimes Murders have been discovered

by the soules of the ayre; In the same manner a Gentleman in Norfolke, Ralph suckey by name, having Murdered one who as he said, had done him great injury, could not afterwards be satisfied within himselfe. Walking one time in the field he beheld a company of Crowes flying by him and making such a noise as they are accustomed when they fly in stockes. The noise they made was but ordinary but the guilt of this Murderer was extraordinary; for reflecting on the horror of his pact applying all things to himselfe, he beleeved that the Crowes did articularly reprove & far him for his Murder; walking not long afterwards at a town called Burnham, be beheld three or foure more Crowes flying by him, and making the like noise, the apprehension thereof working open the guilt of his conscience did so much affright him, that of himselfe bee expressed words of great suspition of which notice being take• by a stander by he was presently had before a Justice to whom be confessed his long concealed Murther and said moreover. 
that if his tongue should deny it, yet his conscience would proclaime it.

Having Confessed it, be seemed to be at great ease, having discharged himself of a borthen that did so greatly oppresse him, and seemed to be worse then Death unto him, the paines whereof, being condemned by Justice, be willingly did undergoe at Thetford the Assises following.
If you please to discend into the Theater, it will present you with a Historie more rare and remarkable then this; It will give you the sight of a cruell and a covelous young man, who to enjoy the state of his Brothers Son did under the pretence of Hunting draw him into a neighbouring wood. where most inhumanely be bereaved him of his Life, and buryed him under a great Tree. This being done, be divulged it forth abroad, that his Kinsman having a great mind to see novelties, and the Government of forrain Countries was travelled beyond the Seas, and in his absence had ordayned him to be Overseer of his estate being very sorry that he could no wayes disswade him from such rash and heady counselo. This Report was entertained into the beliefe of all his Kinsmen, and continued currant for certaine yeares; At the last be caused it to be spred forth abroad, that his Kinsman was dead beyond


the Seas, and being the only Heire that was left, be for many yeares without any disturbance did inherite his Estate but not without some visible Judgment; for his Children dyed. It was the mit of Justice that he should be left Childless himself, who had destroyed his brothers Child, to enrich his own family
In the processe of Time, walking in the fields which so unjustly he had possessed, and thinking himselfe secure, and free from all dangers whatsoever, beheld where two Robens soaring over his head did stoope lower to it, as they came nearer to him. This sight was strange unto him, but the noise they made was more terrible. he used all the meanes that possibly he could to fright them from him but neither the shoutes which he made, nor the noise of his Gun would prevaile, for the Ravens still hovered over his dead, or were neare unto him either on the one side of him or the other. Eatring into house they made a great noise, & soaring upward they wheeled abrut the house and then pearched on the top of it; He caused them to be shot at, but they were not hurt, & if they rsse from the top of the house they presently again would alight upon it.

Night comming on, the Master of the house entertained a hope that they wold be gone, and commanding Horses to be made ready be withdrew himselfe with his ordinary trayne of Servants to •nother place, but all in vaine, for these two dreadfull and black winged Summoners did still attend him. On the morning following be offered a round summe of money to any one that could kill those Ravens, which although it was often attempted, as before yet could never be effected: At the last his hope and his heart sainted and caving with dispaire be confessed the Murder he had committed. Its words at the first were taken as proceeding from a Man that had lost his sences and his health. But the place being searched where in the Wood be acknowledged that he had buried his Brothers Sonne, after a little digging in the ground the Spade grated against the skull & severall Bones were taken up which no sooner were brought unto the house where the Murderer was, but the two Ravens (having done the businesse in which the divine Providence did imploy them) did By away and they were seene no more about the houses. The Murderer being

dragged to the Tayle was brought not long afterwards before the Court of Justice, where being Condemned for his murder be answered for the guilt of his pact with the forfeit of his life
Sometimes we shall find that Dogs have been made instruments to bring to light Murders that have been cōmited: sometimes inanimate things have been made instrumentall in it; and the judgment of GOD upon Murderers have amongst the Heathen been so remarkable, that we shall find they have seldome escaped unpunished. The censure of the Barbarians when they saw the Uiper to leape out of the fire, and to hang on the hand of Paul is most considerable, surely said they, this man is a Murderer whom though hee hath escaped the Sea, yet Vengeance will not suffer him to live.

But to proceed to our Subject in hand, It is an ancient Proverb in this Nation, That seldome any notorious Murder is committed, but a Woman hath a hand in it. To this the severall Jailes in this land and places of Execution have given many testimonies. How mercilesse were those female furies who came over from

Ireland with recruits for the late King, Their Knives were more bloudy then were the Swords of their companions.
It is not much regarded but very true it is, that the finest and softest Tempers being depraved doe grow most obdurate, the purest Natures doe prove most vitions. Had not Lucifer been the Son of the morning it id possible that he had never been the Prince of Darkness▪ had not the Complexions of some Women been so tempting and their Inclinations so tender by Nature, It is likely they had never been such Devils as they are.

It is a Principle in Philosophy, that Corruptio optima est possima. The best Corruption is the worst, and it holds true as well in the Intlinations of the mind, as in the Constitutions of the Body. Who would have thought that love and tendernesse should be corrupted into cruelty? Who would have thought that the Nurse of Children should become the Murderer of Children? O horrid fruits of unruly Avarice; And O the wickedness of a Womans haart, hardned into the practice of all manner of villany.

This woman Abigall Hill, was look'd


upon by all her Neighbours, for a Woman inclined to much Compassion, she seemed much to pitty young Children, that were in distresse, and according to bee power to relieve them, She was therefore supposed to be a good nurse into whose charge and care the Nursing up of young Children should be committed.
She lived many yeares in the Parish of St. Olaves in Southwark with her Husband who to yet living, and some Children she brought up carefully, and returned them after the time was out unto the Parish who payed her for them, thinking her to be a carefull and good Woman; And this was the reason that many Children were brought uncover, and if at any time any Child forsaken by the wicked Mother was left upon the Parish, we would be ready to receive & undertake to bring it up being a Nurse as wicked, and more cruell then the Mother.

Seven years thus she lived, & no notice was taken of what became of her Children if any were missing, it being blesesed that they dyed by sickness, or having too many of them lying on her hands she thad delivered the charge of them to some oher poore woman to be carefull of them.


It was oftentimes murmured indeed amongst her Neighbours, that such and such a Child was conveyed away, and much suspition there was amongst them because they could not tell what was become of it and the sodennesse of the removall of the Child without anr noise of Sickness or discontent, did adde much unto their jealousie: At the last, it pleased God, that this wicked Woman and her Husband did fall out where in the beat of his passion bee did upbrain her with the Children she had made away.
This presently was taken notice of by the Neighbours, who affirming it was pitty that such a wicked Creature should live upon the Earth. did acquaint the Constable with it, who carrying her before a Justice of the Peace (she having but little to say for herselfe) was sent to Newgate, and at the Sessions following which began on Wednesday, Decemb. 15. her Inditement was read, for Murdering of foure Children and shee being not able to say any thing for her selfe, as to give answer what became of the Children, or if they were dead to satisfie where they were buried, the Jury sound


her guilty, not only for that bortid murder, but for the charge against her, that she had made a Trade of it, and that at the Quarter day, she would borrow Children of her poore acquaintance, and being them to the Masters of the Parish as if they were those shee had taken into her custody to Nurse, and having received her pay for them she would returne them againe unto those of whom she had borrowed them.
All the Confession which she made at the Barre was, that indeed once one of her Children lying sicke, and but little hope of Life, she did wring it by the neck and killed it, to put it out of its paine; For this and her other horrid Murders, she was condemned to suffer Death and be hanged at Cheapside. wch accordingly was performed on Wednesday December, 22. 1658.

Being come to the place of Execution, either the stubbornness of her resolution or the desperatnesse of her condition had made her almost sencelesse; for she made no Confession at all, and being advised of the shortnesse of her Life and to meet with God by repentance, she would returne


no answer to the admonitions of the Divine, nor of any other that did give her any saving Counsels. It is observable that being on the Ladder, as the Executioner was sitting the fatail Rose about her neck, she turned sodainly unto him as if shee had been in some passion. and said unto him, What! Doe you make account to choake me? She had Time given on her to make her Confession, but the people perceiving that she abused their expactation, the Hangman at the last turned her off the Ladder and she dyed miserably, as she dyed mercilesly.
Wee heare of some Women, the one in Shoreditch, and the other in Shoo-lane, who although they have made no trade of kaine of it, have brought their Children, or their Apprentices to the like untimely ends. These are sad Stories, but I bopa not true. But this Woman may be an Example unto all to take bees how they run into the same Onilf, least they partake of the same paublike punishment.

    The End.

