A true and sad reration of the great and bloudy murder committed at Ratcliff in Stepney Parish neer the city of London, upon the body of John Hunter, a sea man, who was stabbed to the heart with a long knife, by one Mr. Smith and his wife, and a young Maid. Wherein is reacted, the manner how they received his bloud in a bason, and how they sere discovered. With their examination thereaft sessions in the Old-Bayley, before the honorable Bench, and their confession. For which fact, both Smith, his wife, and the other strumpet hath now suffered death.
A true relation of the great and bloudy murder committed upon the person of John Hunter a sea-man, at Ratcliffe, by his father and mother, and a maidservant; who for their bloudy act are now condemned to dye Jan. 21. 
1646.
Of all the most bloudy and inhumane murders, which have happened in former ages, non can be paralleled with this, which I shall here unfold. And although former times can produce straunge events, and bloudy murders, yet few so barbarous as this which the ensuing relation will make manifest.
And although it makes my very heart tremble with fear to think upon this dolefull action, and my pen to quiver by inditing of it; yet I shall endeavour to spin out a little time, and to give you the full relation of this mate murder, which hapned at Ratcliff, which is thus: This John Hunter having marryed with the daughter of one Mr. Smith, (who for many years have lived at the fore named place, but in no honest way) were promised a certaine summe of money with het, after some few moneths expired, he left her, and went to the sea, having the consent of his wife thereunto; and after many dangerous tempests upon the surging waves, it pleased God to send him and the rest of his ship-mates safe to England, granting them a safe arrivall at the City of London, and coming ashore, the master of the ship appointed a time for the receipt of their monies, which accordingly they received, many of the resolving to go and spend two or three hours in mirth, which is indeed a usuall thing amongst most of the mariners, when they come to their port of arrivall. But night drawing on, he took his leave of his ship-mates, and repayred to his mothers house at Ratcliff, and being somewhat in drink asked his mother for his wifes portion, who immediately replyed, saying she would pay him his portion before he went to bed, desiring him to go into the parler, (a backeroome) and she would come and pay him his due, saying, that she had bin indebted unto him too long.
Whereupon, she called in her husband, and another strumpet that were her maid, and having a long knife in her hand, gave him a mortal stab, piercing him to his vey heart at the first blow.
The maid (like a cunning strumpet) stood reading with a bason to receive his bloud, the men also assissting them with his utmost power.
But God, (who suffereth no such bloudy and unhumane murders to lye hid) revealed this foul Crime; for a little boy it was discovered, who seeing his brother fall & his bloud to run in a bason, presently ran out, and cryed his brother were slan, his brother were slain, the mother running out after him brought him in again; saying, she would whip him, for not keeping within doores, but she missed of her intent; for, some of the neighbours hearing this doleful cry presently hasted up to the watch, relating this unhappy tydings to them; who immediately came to the house where this bloudy act was executed, and knocking at the door, they were denyed entrance, but they forced their way in, and ransacking up and down the house, found him lying dead n a back-room. 
Whereupon, they immediately apprehended the three bloudy conspirators, and committed them to safe custody, carrying them to White-Chappel prison, where they remained ever since, to answer for their most accursed crimes.
And upon Thursday the fourteenth of this instant month of Janu. They were brought to Newgate, to answer before the honorable bench in the Old-Bayley, which accordingly they did. 
For upon the fifteenth of this instant, being Fryday, they appeared, and being brought before the bench, were examined, but could say little, for themselves, only the man replyed, and said, that he were not in the house when the fact were committed, but came after it was done and were loath (at present) to reveal it, not intending to conceal it long. Whereupon, judgment was given, and sentence past, that the man and the maid should suffer at Tyburn, which was accordingly done upon Thursday Jan. 21 and the old woman to be hanged at her owne doore at Ratcliff upon Fryday Jan. 22.
A sad spectacle to behold: yet it is apparent that where vice and sin doth raign, shame and destruction doth suddenly follow.
For it is to be noted that htis Mrs. Smith hath for many years, lived a most wicked & lewd life, keeping beautifull Creatures, (but many graines to light) within her house.
And it is further related that she had followed the trade so long, that she had worne her nose thrid-bare being shamed of the colour and outside, insomuch, that her face were much deformed. 
But in short time she got a remedy for it, by getting a counterfeit nose, having worn it for many years together.
But all her conceits could not keepe her from this vntimely end, which God grant that all good Christians may by her take warning by her, that so they may endeavor to resist sinne and Sathan, and to keepe that evil Spirit from taking any possession within them, that so they may not be provoked to these unchristian-like Actions: for bloud will require bloud, and justice must take place.
Thus have you the full and exact relation of this great and unheard of murder, which I thought fit to present to the view of all Good Christians.
Finis.
 
