A true and perfect RELATION OF THE Tryall, Condemning, and executing of the 24. Prisoners, who suffered for severall Robberies and Burglaries at Tyburn on Fryday last, which was the 29. of this instant Iune, 1649. Expressing the penitent end of the said Prisoners, the grief of the many Thousands there, and the Speech of Iohn Mercer (who was there executed) concerning Unity in this Kingdom, and the bringing home and setling of the King.

July 3d


LONDON, Printed for G.R. in the Year 1649.


A true and perfect Relation of the Tryall, condemning, and executing of those 24. Prisoners, who suffered at Tiburne on Fryday the 29, of June. 1649.
THe robbery of the wicked shall destroy them. Proverbs 11.7. But justice is the pillar of the State, the Queene of vertues, and the Empresse of Human society; without it men could not live one by another; neither durst the Father trust the son, the son the Father nor a faithfull friend his seeming cordiall friend, so depraved is the condition of man, in this Iron age, when scarcely a man can travell in the day time, much lesse in the night with a white rod (as formerly) and a charge of money, but must be strongly guarded with company, otherwise he shall lose his mony, and what is worth any thing; if he fortunately escape with his life; our honourable Iudges judiciously taking into consideration, most maturely condemned these following, being Indited upon severall robberies, and Burglaries at the quarter Sessions last, holden in the Old Bayly in London for the County of Middlesex, and City of London. And their those most honourable Judges remembred that their office was not Jus dicere but Jus dare, to interprit Law, and to make Law, or give Law; they then showed themselves more learned then witty, more reverend then plausible, and more advised then rash; all concluding with the last of the twelve Roman

Tables Salus populi suprema lex, The good of the people is the cheifest Law; which this Nation cannot but take notice of, applauding the wisdom of such grave persons, and hartily desiring that each Circuite of this Common wealth may be furnished with such worthy Patriots, that so those who are ex lex without Law, and would turne all to a Community, not respecting either the peace of this State, or quiet mens peculiar proprieties, may be took away, for
Immedicibile vulnus
Ense recidendum est, ne pars sincera trahatur.[1]
The curelesse wound
Justice must cut, least it infect the sound.


Yet they went not so severely to worke, but that they had an eye of pitty to those whom the Law would pardon as not hating the persons, but the vice in the persons, not respecting the pe•son, but judging according to their severall trespasses; For neither partiall aff•ction to the men, love of mony, feare, nor envy, incited them to pardon, or defe•r'd them to pronounce the finall sentence against them, which was must bravel with commisseration pronounced to them on Wednesday last being the 27. of Iune, at the Sessions house in the Old Bayly, from whence they were brought back unto Newgate, where a Minister appointed, exhorted them to provide themselves for another world, since the Lord had appointed a period to their lives in this. And they like penitent Christians did so.

On Fryday Morning about nine of the clock, they were tied in 8. carts and at St. Sepulchres Church the Sexton according to the usuall custome, ringing his Bell made a short speech unto them. First, expressing their suffering according unto Law, then inciting them to call on Christ
Page 3

Jesus; and Desiring the people to pray for their soules; which being ended the carts were drave unto Tiburne the Fatall place of execution, where William Lowen the new Hangman fastned eight of them unto each Triangle, their was not much said as in relation to confession of any other thing, then what they were condemn'd for by any of them only Iohn Mercer a young man desiring audience spake to this effect as fo loweth,

How that he was Indicted for murther and Burglary, (but took on his death, that he was not guilty of any murther; And then spake to the people, saying, Pray for the prosperity of Jerusalem, let them prosper that love it, Pray (said he) for the peace of this kingdom; let men love their vvives, Women their Husbands, one neighbour another, let concord and Unitie be your desires, embrace them as the cheifest good, for vvithout them their can be no happines on earth, or beatitude hereafter; for in discord their is nothing but dissentions arise, which being sovvne like tares disturbe an spoile the best cropp and most mature Councells. For you souldiers be sure you fight the Lords battells, and the Almighty God vvill be vvith you, and follovv you, so that no doubt but success shall attend you here, peace to this miserable Kingdom, and glory to your selvs hereafter; But the only vvay to stop that vein vvhich is already bleeding, and to give an Antidote against future miseries vvhich already threaten to invade this distressed Kingdom, is to pray for the peace of this City, this Kingdom, & to bring your King home, vvithout vvhom their is no likelihood of peace o• settlement; for already the svvord is half dravvn out, but Woe be unto this already vvounded Nation, if the Almighty should take it quite forth instead of sheathing it.

Which being ended, the people wished him to pray for his own soule, which he with all the rest of the condemned most fervently did, as also chearfully singing a Psalme, and then the Minister spake unto them, to call most earnestly upon their Saviour, which with eyes and hands upward to the Heavens, they generally performed with such lamentable voices and mourning, that it moved the many thousands of people there a farre off, to pray lamentingly with them, and to eccho forth when the Carts were drawn away: Lord have mercy on their soules.

Thus gentle Reader, you have the true Relation of the untimely end of 23. Men, and one Woman, condemned by the Law; wherein that great multitude which were then at Tyburn, may take occasion still to call to the Almighty for grace, without which they will be left unto themselves, as these sufferers were, and all others may learne, not to rely upon themselves but on the strength of Christ Jesus: For the Devill either by ignorance or insolence, will still be insiting man unto sin: And there are three degrees of sin, suggestion, delectation, and consent, suggestion is the seed, delectation the nourishment,


and consent the accomplishment: And then Lawes must be in force, for good Lawes without execution, are like the picture of St. GEORGE, alwayes with his weapons up, but never striking.

And those who begin to follow these Life-bereaving ways but for a time, and then intend to leave them of, let them know that

Nemo repente fuit turpissimus.[2]
None on the suddain rise to the height of ill.


But when they once entertain such evill wayes, they are not so soone left of, as it is easier not to admit an uncivill guest then to turn him out, so is it more facile to destroy sin in the embrio, then when it is come to maturity; for Custome hardeneth, and draweth with security the lives of many to their untimely end: And thus not to restrain evill, is to maintain evill, and want of punishment is the encouragement thereof; Therefore the Almighty faith, Deut. 1.17. Ye shall not respect judgment in persons. And why but because as the Psalmist saith, Psal. 33.5. He loveth righteousness and judgment, which let all lay unto heart, and assure themselves, that although they commit their wickedness secretly, yet there shall come a time when God will inslict punishment

on them, which the Poet could take notice of when he said
Raro anticedentem scelestum
Deseruit pede paena claudo.[3]
Seldom the villaine, though much hast he make
Lame footed vengance seeme to overtake.


And the Scripture verifies the same in many places, therefore to deferre all our soules from these regnant sins, let us lay before our eyes, the untimely death of men thus suffering; the staine upon their memories, which time cannot blot out, the grief of their woful Parents, Wives and Children, the shame of their kindred, acquaintance and friends; with the loss of their precious soules for eternity. For Numb. 32.23. Be sure your sin shall find you out, and except ye repent, ye shall all perish.

The Names of the 23. Men, and one Woman, who were executed at Tyburne the 29. of June, 1649.
Thomas Smith
William Moreton
John Merccer
John Blymvell
Henry Woodes
Robert Everet
Hamlet Childe
William Burre
Ralph Harrison
George Brown
Joseph Rogers
Thomas Whiting.
Thomas Trodd
Iohn Carter
Henry Pate
Nathaniel Bishop
Francis Swayte
Edward Minson
Roger Dounes
Rowland Bateman
Richard Broadwater
Thomas Crooke
George Hewlet
Mary Iones.


    Finis.


〈1 page duplicate〉
[1] Ovid Meta.

[2] Jurenal. Satyr. 2.

[3] Horrat.
