A TRUE NARRATIVE Of the Proceedings at the Sessions-House IN THE OLD-BAYLY, Which begun on Wednesday the 30th of April 1679. and ended on Fryday the second of May following. Being a True Relation of the Tryal and Condemnation of a Romish Priest, for High-Treason. With the Tryal of the Maid for setting her Masters House on Fire in Holborn, as also of two Persons for Counterfeiting his Majesties Coin, and two Women for Murdering their Bastard Children.

WITH the number of the persons that received Sentence of Death, Burn'd in the hand, and to be transported,

VVith Allowance.

LONDON, Printed for D. M. 1679.

The Proceedings at the SESSIONS-HOUSE In the OLD-BAYLY, were as followeth.
OF the many Malefactors here tryed, the most material and notorious were, Two persons, who together with a Confederate of theirs that fled for it, had broke into a Gentlemans Chamber of Clements Lane, and from his Chamber into his Study, where they rifled his Truncks, and took away 515 l. in Moneys: they made made their way through some Chamber next adjoyning to that robbed where, one having entertained the other two to lodge with him for several nights, they so contrived their business as to break a Hole in their own Wall behind their Beds head with a short but strong Dagger, which was produced in Court: the Rubbish which was sworn by the Ividence to be to the quantity of a Bushel or two fell into their own chamber where they lay, so that no sign of any such breach could be discovered in the Chamber of the Gentleman robbed: Next they met with a Wainscot Pane, wherewith the Wall on the other side was lined, which with great Art they took down at a time when they knew the Gentleman robbed to be from home; the Gentleman's Beds head was the next opposition they met with, but by main force they made a shift to remove the Bed, and make their entrance to a mischief: Having rifled the Truncks, and taken away the 515 l. they retreated through the breach they had

made in the Wall; the Prosecuter at his return, discovering his misfortune, causes the Porter of the house to view his Chambers, and having just suspicion of these his Neighbours, orders the Porter to seize upon the Owner of the next Chamber, upon his next sight, who accordingly coming home late that night, with two Swords, was laid hold on by the Porter. The person pleads innocence and no want of mony to invite him to such an Attempt; as also that the other his Chamber-fellows (the Parties indicted) had a Key to the Chamber, and might do this without his knowledge, he desires that his Mother and another Witness may be heard in his behalf, but both failed to appear, though often called in Court; the other Prisoner then at the Bar confessed his having gone from his Master to Canterbury and weal with the Party which fled from this Fact, who being afraid of his discovering him, gave him money to bear his charges home again, and lent him as the Prisoner calls it, 10 l. with which he returns; taken by Capt. Richardson, and committed, and upon full Evidence both were brought in guilty of the Felony and Burglary.
The next of note was a person that was arraigned for killing a Footman upon this occasion. On the tenth of March, about 11 at night, the Footman seeing this Person in the Street asked who came neere; answer was made, a Gentleman; the Footman told him, (with the interposition of an Oath) that he was none; whereupon the Prisoner struck the Footman with his Cain; upon which the Footman press'd so hard, the Prisoner notwithstanding

endeavours to take him off, that he was forced to make use of his Sword and the Footman was kill'd. This being found a sudden Fray, and no premeditated Malice between them, was brought in by the Jury Manslaughter.
After this was Arraigned a Servant-Maid indicted for setting on fire her Masters house, in the Parish of S. Andrews Holborn, in the County of Middlesex, on the 10th of April last; the Witness proved nothing against her; one affirmed that with a Fork, which upon the affright of the Fire he had taken up, he stirred up a Bundle of Rage or Cloathes in which he saw the Wick of a Candle about two Inches in length on Fire in the Room which was then burning, but withall de¦clared the opposite end of that Room wherein it was found to be most on fire: The Prisoner could not hold in her tale about her absence while the Fire was in her Masters Garret, where it broke out; for she of the two Maid-servants which her Master kept went last to Bed that night, and while they in the house were busie about the fire, she it seems was missing; but the Evidence fixing nothing upon her she was by the Jury brought in not guilty.

A Woman Indicted for having on the fifteenth April last murdered a Male Bastard Child, of which it seems she had been delivered but an hour before She was going with it, wrapt up in an Apron in her Hand-basket, to bury it in the Church-yard, as she pretended; being discovered, was apprehended by by a man, who called another to his assistance, and wwho much a-do wrung the Hand-basket out of her hand

whereupon they sent for a Midwife, who fearching found (as in Court she swore it) that the Prisoner had then newly been delivered of a Child, that the Child was dead, but of perfect shape, and that she had gone her full time with it: No marks were found about the Child of any force or violence had been used to it: The Prisoner confessed she was delivered of it in an House of Office, but affirmed, that it was Still-born; which the Jury not crediting, upon hearing the Statute in that behalf read to them in open Court, brough her in guilty of the Murder.
Another Indicted for the murder of a Male-child found dead in her Masters house; which being a publick house, and in a place where a Stranger might as well have laid it, and no Proof coming in directly against her, she was brought in not guilty.

Two Persons were Indicted for killing two men; but it being done upon provocation, and in heat of blood, the Jury found it Man-slaughter.

Afterwards was Arrainged for High-Treason, and Tryed, one Morgan, as being a Priest by Virtue of Authority derived from the Sea of Rome: Dr. Oats then present on the Kings behalf informed the Court upon Oath that the said Morgan was a Romish Priest, and that he had particularly on the 25th of August last heard the Prisoner, and saw him in his Priests Robes in Cockpit-Alley reading Mass, which the Prisoner not denying, the Jury brought him in guilty of High-Treason.

A Souldier Indicted for robbing one Beckington, April the 18th, between nine and ten at night, upon the High way between London and Hendon. It appeared to the Court, that he took from the Prosecutor

a Suit of Boys Cloaths, and seven shillings in moneys numbred; after which he bound the Prosecutor, and threw him into a Gravel-pit: upon full Evidence the Jury found him guilty of the Felony and Robbery.
A Young Man Indicted for washing, counterfeiting, and coyning ten mill'd half-Crown pieces, ten Elizabeth shillings, and ten shillings of the Coyn of King Charles the First: he was apprehended in the Fact; whereupon certain pieces of Moneys finished and unfinished were taken from him, and produced in Court. The Prisoner pretended, that for five shillings he was hired only to boyl them for one living in the Minories; the Jury upon hearing the Evidence, and receiving directions from the Court about the Statute on which he was Indicted, brought him in guilty of High-Treason.

A Souldier Arraigned for murdering a Pavier in Holbourn on the 31th of March last, by wounding him with a Shovel on the right side of the head; but upon Tryal, Provocations and Circumstances being duly weighed, the Jury brought in the Prisoner only guilty of Man slaughter.

A Maid-servant to a French Merchant, Indicted by her Master for having feloniously taken away several Tortois-shell Fans, and counterfeit Amber Neck laces, which the Master proves to have been his own, and sold by the Prisonet; but the Prisoner in her Defence gives the Court ample satisfaction that she sold these by Order of her Mistress (for so the Prisoner was ordered by her Master to own the Housekeeper, to whom it appear'd in Court he had given

full power of selling those commodities) the jailer brought in the Prisoner (who was a Protestant) not guilty; and the Prosecutor (being a Roman Catholick) was made to find Sureties for his Good Clearing.
One Indicted for Murthering her Bastard Child, on the 12th. of March last, upon her Arraignment Confessed the Fact and seemed very Penitent: The Jury in their Verdict brought her in Guilty, and accordingly she had Sentence passed upon her.

An Ancient Man Indicted for Seditious words which he had spoken against the King and the Protestant Religion: but the Evidence being somewhat weak herein, and it appearing that the Prisoner was Distracted, the Jury brought him in not Guilty.

A Man was Indicted for High-Treason for Counterfeiting the Kings Coin; In his Possession were found Stamps for Spanish Pistols, and two Counterfeit Spanish pieces, but they not being Coin currant in England and the Fact not being proved upon him as to the Coin of our King, ihe Prisoner was brought in not Guilty.

Another there was one who stood Indicted for Counterfeiting the Kings Coin, he Confessed that he had Brass money of a Friend of his to Boyl for him, that thereby it might be brought to a passable Complexion, which Boiling, by Directions from the Bench, appearing to the Jury to fall under the the Statute against Counterfeiting any of the Kings Coin, the Prisoner was accordingly found Guilty of High Treason and Condemned to be Drawn, Hang'd and Quartered.


There was a Man Indicted for Stealing a Brown-Bay Horse, upon his Araignment Confessed the Fact, and accordingly was brought in Guilty by the Jury, and received Sentence of Death.
A Woman was Arraigned for the Felonious taking of a Silk Farrendine Gown, with two Petticoats and a Wastcoat on the 15th of March last, was upon full Evidence Convicted and accordingly Condemned.

There were many Tryed at this Sessions, some for Felonies, some for Burglaries, and some for Murders, for which Crimes fourteen received Sentence of Death, viz. nine Men and five Women; nineteen Burn'd in the Hand, and two received the Mercy of the Court for Transportation, and the Priest and Money-boiler before mentioned, were Condemned to be Drawn, Hang'd and Quartered and their Quarters to be disposed of at his Majesties Pleasure.

    FINIS.