A VVORLD of vvonders A MASSE of Murthers.

A COVIE of Cosonages.

Containing many of the moste notablest Wonders, horrible Murthers and detestable Cosonages that haue béene within this Land.

Not imagined •also to delight vaine heads c•iese, nor practised trans mare to breed trueth cum ambiguitate, but commited euen at home re vera, and may be prooued cum honestate.

A matter moste fit to be knowen, well wayed and considered of all men.
Who list of VVonders tell, and straunge euents to knowe,
Or heare of Murthers fell: this Booke a Masse dooth 〈◊〉.
Who would the wily slights, of Cousnage gladly heare,
Heerin for his delights: a Couie dooth appeare.
Muse at the first, feare at the next, the third doth cry beware
So maist thou shun a world of woes which herein named ere.


NON PLVS

W.B

[Figure: printer's or publisher's device ]

Imprinted at London for William Barley, and are to be solde at his shop in Gratious streat neere vnto Leadenhallgate. 1595.

View Image - Image 2 (unnumbered page)
Image 2 (unnumbered page)


Unnumbered page


To the christian READER. grace, mercie and peace.
FOrasmuch (gentle and beneuolent Reader) as wee are now abyding in that same iron worlde wherof Ouid speaketh in which is small store of good frutes but such as barren soyles doe buy: Nature yeelds, to witthistles, brambles & such like, whereof small gaine is to bee expected, wherwith mens harts are hardned, charitie chased, loue lack∣ing trueth thrusted out of doores, liberalitie laide along, com∣paision coupled in chaines and all good and vertuous exerci∣ses either seldome vsed or vtterly extinct: as fire smothered vp in ashes, and in stede of these carnall and most vnnaturall murthers, detestable periuries, cankerd coutousnes incesti∣ous adulterie, hardnes of hart, peeuish extortion, exactions vsury and diuers such most horrible and abhominable practi∣ses yeerly, monthly, nay howrely are vsed and practised. All which and other like to the learned are thought to bee moste euident and manifest signes, that that finall end that conclu∣sion and shutting vp of these transitories and vanities of this mortall world are at hand and that Christ is euen readie to call vs vnto iudgement: and forasmuch as calling of Preachers, execution of lawes and iustice and other like woorketh but small amendment in vs, yet neuerthelesse because that signes threats, tokens of Gods wrath, signes in the ayre, murthers, incest and such like heard of and seene with our corporall eyes although they be not in continuall remembrance to terrifye by vs from committing such abhominations, yet doe they for the present time that they are seene, heard or done, stirre and moue vs vp to prayer to God to amendment of our sinful liues, to the horror of such wicked actions and such like.



View Image - Image 3 (unnumbered page)
Image 3 (unnumbered page)

And for this cause I haue collected these exampses not from straunge languages or from forrain nations which might breed some ambiguitie or doubtas touching the trueth, but I haue ta¦ken them out of our owne natiue Cuntry (not without sorrow that such hainous sins & enormities should be so rife amongst vs) wherof can no doubt be made for trueth of action or ex∣ception for processe of time or antiquitie, being done all for the most parr within these few yeares within our memory with in our knowledge. All which I say are collected togither in a redines as apretious glasse to see the frailitie of man, to vein the wickednesse of this world, the end of mischiefs, the pu∣nishment of such greeuous enormities & such like that therby, other seing the same may refrain the like, and seeke to shunne such paths as lead to distruction which graunt vs so to doe hee that for sin∣ners shed his pretious blood vpon the tree. Amen. (.)

Thine in Christ. T. I.

Unnumbered page

AS there is no fructe vvhich hath not first his bud then his flovver, thirdly his fruct and aftervvard time for his rypenes. Euen so there is no villanie o• vvicked fact that hath not first his motion and intent, next his opportunitie, thirdly his execution or com∣mitting of that fact and lastly his shame and punish∣ment as may appeare by these examples.


A COVIE of Cosonages.
WIthin these thrée yeare dwelled in Brodstreet within the Cittie of London a Chaundler, whose honest life, good conuersation, vpright dealing and christian zeale is yet manifestly to beknowen of ye inhabitants wher he dwel∣led. Vnto this youngman in a winters eue∣ning repaired a tall young man of a commen∣dable proportion of body, if inward guifts had accorded therunts:

This man entring this Chaundelers shoppe (where the good∣man was busie in his vocation) & demaunded if he had any Nut∣megges to sell, whereuppon after hee had séene the Nutmegges,

View Image - Image 4 (unnumbered page)
Image 4 (unnumbered page)

demaunded the price, he asked the Chaundler if hée would buye a good bargaine of Nutmegges and other wares? saying hée was lately come out of the Carick and had certaine commodities to sel which he had kept till than, but now wanting money and com∣ming into arrorages, with his Ghoast where he soiurned, was constrained to sell all his merchandize or at least some of them to discharge his lodging: the Chaundler ready (as all worldlings are) to get: After certaine spéeches of bargaining, they grewe to a composition and absolute bargaine, and therupon this halter catcher desired the Chamdler to take a bagge or two with him, to put in the commodities for the easier carriage, and also to put sixtéene shillings in his pursse to pay the hoast if he would not let the wares to passe (for so much hée said he was runne on the score) The simple and plaine meaning Chaundler suspecting nothing lesse then cosenage tooke to his box and tooke out from other mony twentie and fiue shillings, and put it into an other pursse by it selfe, and so takeing the bagges marched all along from Bread∣street to Queen-hiue where this tibornesse growing sonne, en∣tring into a dore (fit as it séemeth his parpose) desired the Chaund∣ler to stay at the dore, till he tooke the bagges and filled them.

After some short space or time this new gates birde came again to the Chaundler sitting at the dore and there certifying him that his host and he had beene at some speeches and that he would not let him haue the Nutmegs vill he had his sixteene shillings, and therfore desired him to let him haue sixtéene shillings to pay him, and ther with deliuered him a thing wrapped vp in browne paper after the best fashon like to a peece of veluet which hee saide was •uft taffata this he left as gadge for the money till the Nutmegs came, the Chaundler meaning plaine simplicitie deliuered him his pursse with the fiue and twentie shillings saying take ye pursse you know I put in so much money, pay him out sixtéene shillings, and keep the rest till we reckon.

Now the viliaine is gonne, and the Chaundler waiteth for his Gentleman at the doore some halfe bowre and more, and pereceiuing no likelyhood of his comming beganne to suspect some vnacqainted bargaine and theruppon vntied paper to see what merchandize was therein which being opened he found nought but taylors shreds artificialy placed and bound after the
Unnumbered page

fashion of yeeces of taffata. Imagine now that the Chaundler is in his dumps, and there leaue him a while meditating vpon the proffit of his bargaine.

The caterpiller in the meane space making haste you may be assured out of a falce back doore (wherof there may be to many in London more is the pittie) came home to the Chaundlers house againe, & he that before had veiwed each thing for his pur∣pose, and had séene the bor out of which the chaundler had taken out the fiue and twentie shillings before, came to the chaundlers boy, and sayd sirra you must send your maister twelue shillings wanting twopence out of the bore that hath the ragge of white cloth in it: the marke of the cloth he saw in the box & at the quan∣titie of the money hee gessed.

The boy gaue small trust to his wordes, and replyed that hee knew no such box till he had him looke for the ragge and saide his master had sent a porter that was comming wt nutmegs, which nutmegs his master charged should be laid out of sight in the back roome. Notwithstanding for all this the boy would not deliuer him any money, but when he was importunate vpon him he de∣sired an other boy of one of the neighbours to come in and take so much money and to goe with the man to his master.

The matter concluded the neighbours boy had a xi .s. and x .d. and going foorth, this notorious cousener leads the boy into Saint Mary-axe to an other doore and bids the boy to staye hee would call the chaundler to him. Hée went in and stayed a while & came againe to the boy saying that the chaundler was so busie that hée would not come to him but desired that he would send it him in, willing him to stay and carry a bagge of nutmegges home with him: the boy simply deliuered the money and stayed an houre for the bagge of autmegges but as yet can not they be heard of.

In the meane time the chaundler commeth home but how dis∣posed (God knoweth) where he findeth himself two folde decei∣ued, to his greit no doubt, and more in my iudgement for the wic∣cednes of the man then for the losse of the money.

If this be not as notorious a knauerie as euer you heard off I refer it to your owne considerations.

View Image - Image 5 (unnumbered page)
Image 5 (unnumbered page)


How a woman consained a minister often groates.
A Minister who yet liueth godly disposed repayred vpon a day to Christs-Church in London to heare the Lecture and con∣tinued there during the set men. Afterwad departing thence, and comming into the open streat, vppon the suddain came a wo∣man vnto him with open mouth and cōmaunded him to giue her her ring. What ring said the Minister? the ring said she you tooke of my finger in the Church. Auaunt queane said the minister I haue nothing of thine and with that the woman made such excla∣mations in the streat, that the passengers gazed vpon them in such sorte that the Minister ashamed of such an hurly burly demaunded what her ring was worth, who answered that it was worth for∣tie pence, and therupon, hée drewe his pursie and gaue her tenne gretes to be rid of the filth.


An other.
VVIthin these last twelue moneths euen at twy-light, an honest man and of good behauiour, came to enter London at Cripplegate, vnder which gate as hee passed, soddainly met him a study fellow who iustled him with his shoulder, & at that instant, vppon the other side of him, an other knaue confederate with the other supposing that he would minde she man that inst∣led him, as indéed any man should doe, caught the fellowes cloke by the lap, and therwith turned himself round, in such sorte that the honest mans cloke was lapped the inside outward vppon the cony-catchers back, and hauing his pray, fled with swift héeles: the honest man, notwithstanding their iustling, remembred his cloke and theruppon cryed stoppe théefe, the other knaue that iust led him neuer stirred his feete but hearing the man cry shop théefe, drewe out his dagger and asked where, where, and by that time people gathered as the vsuall order, the honest man said that hee that had the dagger in his hand was he that iustled him but whe∣ther he was his associate that ran away with his cloke hee would not say. What a villaine is this queth the cony-catcher to make such an hurly burly, thou art a dissembling roague said he & take
Unnumbered page

this for thy labour and therwith stroke the poore man vppon the head with his dagger, and by this meenes, left he his cloke and was also cruelly heaten.


An other.
ANd séeing I haue begunne with Clocke-catching, beholde an other knack of knauery, which was commited in Smithfeild at noone dayes. A certaine man walking or going in Smithfeild with a new cloke vpon his back, there came to him of Plutoes hel-hountes, demaunding what he might pay for his cloake: ma∣ry sir said ye other, it cost me fiue nobles, truely saide the other it is woorth that: I pray you where bought you it? at such a place said the other, and there you may haue of the very self same péece: at last the frauder desired the honest man that he might sée it vppon his back, if it were long enough, for him, who meaning nothing but plaine dealing, put the cloke vpon the others back and incon∣tinent the théefe runneth away as fast as he might with the cloke, the true man cryed stoppe theefe stoppe théefe, and hee that was the théefe and ranne away, he cryed also stoppe theefe, stop theef, the men in the streat hearing both of them cry both one noate sup∣posed that both they had runne after a third body, and could not tell whome to stay, so that in conclusion, the théefe past away sti∣ly with the cloke and so far as euer I could learne was euer heard of to this day.


An other.
ANd will yée yet heare straunger matters the trueth wherof is, and may with small labour be knowen.

At the Sun without Alders-gate not long since there supped certaine Gentlemen and seruingmen: There Chamber prepared and supper ready, they fat downe to meat, among whome came in also an other man booted and spurred and fat downe with them at the neither end of the Table, a méere Straunger to the rest, yet vnsuspected, for that euery one thought hée had beene some freind or acquaintance of some of the other, (as well it might bee iudged) where many are togither one thinking him to bee such a

View Image - Image 6 (unnumbered page)
Image 6 (unnumbered page)

mans acquaintance, the other thinking him to be his freind, &c.

They passed their supper time in mirth and paid the reconing, among the which, this new found gue & orderly payde his share and hauing so done they sat talking till it was néer to eleuen of the clock at night and that all the companies were departed the Ta∣uerne, except this vncouth guest watching his time left the com∣panie & came to the bar where he found the boy that sat therin nod∣ding a sleepe with money to the value of eight or tenne shilings, in his hand vnto whome came this prigger and with théeuish soft∣ly meanes assayes to take the money out of the boyes hand and did faindeed, the boy not fast in sleepe awaked, mist his money, search was made, the fellow not far was gonne from the barre: and theruppon had in suspition: hee denyeth the fact bothe with wordes, othes and gesture: inquirie was made of whose acquain∣tance he was, of them that supped togither and in conclusion hee was found a meere straunger to them all, and thereupon did serche bothe his sleeue, bosome and other places where might bee any possibilitie to hide any mony but all in vaine, it could not be found he stoode vppon his tearmes hee was a Gentleman, he was honest as the best &c. This made the companie muze till at the length one subtiller then the rest commaunded his bootes to be plucked of and in one of them they found the eight shilinges, manifested by tokens and his other to the value of fiue pounds.


An other.
BVt if you desire to heare a subtiller kinde of knauery and such a one as if it had not beene petie knauery for the small valu∣ation of the thing defrauded, you might say it caried the vel away and it was thus.

A pore woman there was, (yea shee yet liueth) that vsed to to take kildeckins of beere of a brewer: this wam an beeing a wi∣dow and hauing but few of meany could not well drink the kyl∣derkin whilst it was good, and therfore a neighbour of hers came to her and called her by her name, saying neighbour, you are but few of houshold and I like a good husband fetch all my drinke at the alehouse if you think good I will fetch of you if I may haue so much for a peny, as I can haue at the alehouse, yes marry shall
Unnumbered page

you said to the widow, why then quoth the other let my folkes hare héere when they come for it, and when they haue fetcher so much as commeth to twelue pence you shall haue money: content saith the widdow, and héerupon they departed, and the man sent day by day for béere till it came to eleuenpence, & then he lift fetching any more, and so it continued: In the end, the poore woman sent to him for money for her drink: money saide her good neighbour, why I awe you none, no quoth the widoowe I haue deliueret so much as commeth to eleuenpence: I confesse all that said he, but when is my day to pay? marry saith shee, when I demaunded it, nay quoth he, my bargaine was to pay when it comes to tweluepence and not before. Thus the poore witow was beguiled.


An other.
IT may sée me néedlesse to write that which as yet is not buryed in the bosoms of obliuien that is how a cripple within these few yéeres within foure or fiue miles of London desired a passenger to help him vpon his horsse, who suposing it a deed of charitie to help him, & taking him in his armes the cripple woūded him to death, and robbed him and according to law was therfore executed.


An other.
AN Vsurer sometime there was who lent out much money and neuer twentie or thirtie yeares made any desperat debt. This vsurer had a man a young whely of this tigers kinde: apt to learn of his olde churle his master what might turne to his proffit: Yet notwithstanding, his master kept all his dealings close from his seruant, in so much, that the seruant séeing his master made no such debts as sometimes he did, demaunded of his master how hée could kéepe himselfe from banckroutes?

The master kept him selfe a loose and would not be knowen of that secret to his seruant, till acenclusion was made that the ser∣uant should bestowe a supper of his master at the tauerne to learn the secret. The supper was prepared, the master, seruant and o∣ther fréends supped and were merry: the master tolde the seruant that if he delt as he vsed to doe, he could make no euill debts, and

View Image - Image 7 (unnumbered page)
Image 7 (unnumbered page)

that was that he should not take any mans bill, bond or woord but euer be sure of a good pawne woorth double or treble his mony in vsancce with a good bill of sale in open market. The supper en∣ded, the olde seignior hauing well liquored himself & olde vesselles must needes leake, would néedes be gon to make water, nay saide the seruant then you will leaue vs: not so said the vsurer, if you think so keep my cloke, wheruppon he tooke his cloke & laid it to pawne at the barre for the shot & went his way. thus fraude was deceiued with deceit.


An other.
NOt thrée yéeres passed, it chaunced that a certaine man traue¦ling towards North-hawton meet with an other man in a so∣litarie place wheras was none other but them twaine, the one of them commaunded the other to stay and to deliuer him his pursse for he wanted money, the other partie seemed willing, & said truly I haue but two shillinges, but seing it is so that thou wilt néedes haue it heere it is, and so gaue it him & departed. This party who had they pursse went forward, and he that lost the pursse séemed to goe forward an other way, but seeing opportunitie crossed ouer two or thrée closes or feildes till he came and met the other theefe againe, and then commaunding him to stay charged him to deli∣uer his pursse for he was a goodfellow wanted mony, and lately robbed and now must and would haue money: the other answered that he should haue none, and then after some spéeches they fell to grapling togither so long till the first théefe was contented to re∣deliuer the man his owne pursse and his two shillings, but the o∣ther was not so contented tooke from him his pursse wherein was seuen shillings and odde pence.


An other.
IT was credibly-reported that not far from the crosse in Cheap∣side in London vsed a Costermongers wife to sit with apples, who vsed for her better intising of customers to haue fortie or fis∣tie shillinges in the pocket other white Apron, which because it was so directly before her a outpurse tooke great care how to cosin
Unnumbered page

her of her mony (which to an honest mans minde might séeme im∣possible to be brought to passe.) The cut-pursses man had made made many assayes but could not preuaile & therefore the master∣cut-purse being moned, tooke the matter vpon him, and takeing a cloake commonly called a spanish-cape (such as Italians daylye vse) it hath a hoode hanging downe the back, he put it about him and came to her where acter many speeches he bought a groates worth of pippins of her but not hauing canuenient carriage re∣quested that shée would let some body carry them home with him. The woman making answere that she had no body but her selfe he then prayed her to put them into the hoore or cape of his cleake wher vppon he stooped downe with his hed and she putting in the apples he put his hand into her packet and by that meanes picked out her money a thing thought vnpossible.


An other.
IN a winters night (some few yéeres past) a boy about thirteen or foureteene yeares of age was sent with three or foure shirte∣bands, caffes and handkerchers therto according valued at foure pounds or there about, vnto a Gentleman lying about olde Fish∣streat, who passing through some part of Waeling-streat vppon a suddain met him a woman demaunding his name his mothers name his dwelling and place wherto he was going, the boy folde her truely all these things and so she departed goin vnto another companion not far seated from her and tolde her mate all what so euer the boy had before declared: which done, this other cosoninge queane crossing ouer the streat came and met the boy calling him by his name, asking him whether he went and so foorth: the boy wondred how she knew him and said that he knew not her, no said she, I a well heard by thy mother at Bishopf-gate and I haue beene heerby of an err and and as I came along this streat at I spied a good shoulder of mutton in a Cookes shop but I cannot haue it vnder xiiii .d. because he and I fell out, I pray thée take this xii . pence, and goe and asue for one Harison a Cooke heer in: Watling streat and se if thou canst buy it, and thou and I will be mery to∣gither with it & then goe home togither. The boy simply tooke the mony & left his bands & other things with the huswife & in the meane while, she went away with the clothes.

View Image - Image 8 (unnumbered page)
Image 8 (unnumbered page)


An other.
SEeing I haue spoke of Watling-streat, I meane to put you in minde of an odde iest (if so I may tearme it) cōmitted in Fry∣day-strēat néere the said place, and thus it was.

Salters there as other traders vse to set out there wares vppon she stalles and such like places that men may see what they haue to sell. Amongst the rest one W. C. now liuing, set out halfe a firkin of sope vnder his stale vppon a barrel of pitch as the reporte goes, and so it long continued. One day aboue the rest, there passed by a man (seruingman like) who seeing the said half firkin (without saying by your leaue) tooke the half firkinne vnder his at me, and away he went. The owner knew nothing thereof, till one of the neighbours servants séeing the fact tolde him of it and he intentinent sent his seruant after him, who brought him to his master, and being asked why he stole it, defied them saying, hée came not into his house for any ware, but he found that half firkin in the Quéenes high way, and therfore hée tooke it vp.


An other:
AMong petie cosonage this may also be numbred. A Cuntrey man came into Fry day-streat before named and demaunded which was his way into Fryday-streat a naughtie minded fel∣low bad him turue at the next corner and he should be out of it by and by. The fillie suspecting no deceit did as he bad him & so was led amisss. And this petie cosonage is to common now a dayes more is the pittie.


An other.
AS notorious a cosonage as euer was heard dooth follow.

In Lecester towne dwelled sometimes a weauer who beeing a perfect workeman wanted not customers to set him on worke and among others one in the towne brought him some. thirtie or, fortie poundes of flaxen yarne to weaue, his woorke ended, hée brought home the cloth as the vsage is, and the goodwise partlie knowing how much might be be made of so much yarne and suspe∣cting
Unnumbered page

that he had stolne same of heer yarne, asked if he had brought home all her yarne, yea dame quoth he that I haue, but 〈◊〉 ••k∣ing as though she did not beléeue him, hee s•ore as G•• sh••••• iudge him he had brought home euerie ha••• to 〈…〉 and so he did in very déed, he brought home all and yet 〈◊〉 standing he beguyled her of two or thrée pounds in his 〈◊〉 •réeches, but going away hee caryed it a way with him backe a∣gaine.

A wounder it is to sée what sleightes the diuell vseth to drawe men vnto him aswelmay be noted in this, for hée thought by this meanes to saue his oath though he neuer imagined that it was a∣sault to deceiue such as put most confidence in him.


An other.
IN Melton Mobray dwelled a Caryer named K. who when first he vsed carrying, as he trauailed in the hiyh way, heard a woman ouer the hedge crying and making great mone for helpe, the man supposing if a good déed to help a woman distressed would haue left his companion and haue gone to the reseue of the wo∣man: but his fellow traualler would not suffer him, shewing him what trecherie might he insuch dissembling cryes, so he stayed a space, but yet hearing the importunate moane he saide that hée would ayde her what he might, and therupon leapt ouer ye hedge, where presently one caught him by the throat, and had not res∣cue béene hée had both beene robbed and murthered.


An other.
IN Colm instreat in London oueragainst a Persumers stall, met thrée men or as may be suspected came thether of a set pur∣pose and stoode in the open streat, within two or thrée yardes (or there abouts) of the stall and talked secretlie betwéene them∣selues, the Perfunter, his wife and seruaut busie in the shoppe, e∣uen at noone dayes: yet one of the thrée hauing a small long wand in his hand as it should seeme hauing a crooked pinne in the end, filched away thrée or foure payre of glooues and went there way vntaken, yea not suspected of such filthy actions. This was

View Image - Image 9 (unnumbered page)
Image 9 (unnumbered page)

doone within these twelue menethes.


An other.
ABout the same time also, a boy aged sixteene or there about, in structed by some miscreant, (for such young yeares coulde not produce so mischeiuous a faction of themselues) got a stick fashio∣ned much like vnto those stickes which the boyes calles bandyes, and hauing the samel esmeered with lyme, came by a Goldsmiths sop in Foster-lane and vnder a pretence of knocking the sticke vpon stalles as be passed along at the last strooke his stick vpon a Gold-smiths bourde where a gilt spoone and other money, they knew not how much he got vpon his lymed stick. The spoone be∣ing waightie fell into the currant, and they had it againe, but what money was lost it is not knowen.


An other.
NOw for because our Countrey-men are slaundered not to be so vpright in conuersation nor so true dealers as straungers, and therfore we run thick and thrée folde to buy what soeuer com∣modities we want (of them leauing our owne natiue Cuntrey∣men as an oprobris to the world aswell for cunning in actes and trades as also in vpright dealing, which sure is lamentable that wee should deecleane contrarie tonature and reason, euen all one to begger our selues and inrich others. I will by your patience showe you a most cunning peece of knauerie this one to serue in∣sted of many examples. Neither is it inuented as false, but euen now by sufficient proofe to be verified at this present & thus it was.

A Gentlewoman of ye cuntrey occasioned to buy her a gowne of taffata came into Cheap-side in London and sought the mercers shops vp and downe and could not finde a peece of taffata so good as she would haue had (for women w•• haue ye best, if it be for their owne backs especially( notwithstanding marking where the best was, came back againe and offered money for it, but not so much as the mercer would haue, wheruppon there was going and sen∣ding to and frs but the bargaine could not be made.

Thus they parted, Now in the meane while a Straunger a
Unnumbered page

Dutchwoman as I wéene, comming to the mercers, vpon some busines noted there busines, noted there spéeches marked the good∣nes of ye taffata & considered the humor of the Gentle woman and theruppon bought the pecce of taffata of the mercer and sent it home to her owne house, and afterward wandring in Cheapside till she espied the Gentlewoman, went vnto her and said Gentle∣woman, I vnderstand that you want a peece of very good riche taffata, if it please you to goe with me I will shewe you such an one as you neuer saw a better and all London can not match it: the Gentlewoman wonderfull glad went with her, saw it and liked it excéeding well, bought it and paide some two or thrée shil∣lings in a yard déerer then she might haue had it before of an eng∣lishman. Well this is our shuttle nature, the parties are yet bothe pleased. The Gentlewoman passing along Cheap-side tolde the mercer of her good hap and therwithall shewed him the taffata with his owne mark and seale at the end thereof, and in∣continent he tolde the Gentlewoman where shée bought it and in what place she dwelt, & how it was the same péece that she should haue bought of him: wherat the gentlewoman thus deceiued was out of measure astonied.

Many other like cosonages might be héere set downe as how the Trpe-wire was of late deceiued-which now in memorie: yea many others, but these may suffice only, I will note two or thrée adde sleightes or iests ands sprocéed to a further matter.


An other.
SOmetime a companie of prentices had apponted to méete at a Tauerne to breake their fast togither, an houre was set, who so came not at that houre was fined at a gallon of wine besides the losse of his breakfast. One aboue the rest, wanting excuse to to come abroade to méet his companions, the houre drew on, his master and mistresse bothe in the shop that he could not start, you would wounder what excuse he made: standing at the doore look∣ing to his appointed place where his hart was, suddainly he ran out of the doores to his mates, stayed there some houre or more, and comming home to his master, enquired where he had beene?

View Image - Image 10 (unnumbered page)
Image 10 (unnumbered page)

and what was the cause of his suddaine running out of the shop? sir said he, as I stoode at the dore I saw H, K. your olde debtor that hath ought you money this long time, and I haue followed him till now to sée him housed, and he is in such a place, & hée hath promised to come and agree with you before hée wil goe out of the Towke.


An other.
A Like to this is reported, that one Master H. in the Pultrie, hauing sundry Chapmen, one of them did owe him money a long season, and at last vnderstanding that his Debtour was in the Towne be commaunded his man to goe and demaund the debt, and if he make delay for the payment (said the Master) tell him from me that I suppose, he taketh no care to pay in my mony.

The seruant went and accomplished in each respect what his master gaue him in charge. When the Debtour heard him talk of care to pay his money, hée replyed, saying, dooth thy master thinke that I take care to pay his money? no, no, hee is deceiued, tell him I tooke care & great care how to get the wareof thy ma∣ster, now let thy master take care how to get his money, for I will take none to pay him.


An other.
AN honest man flitting or remoouing from the house where héeearst dwelled, wanting roume was constrained to sell a cer∣taine bedstead. Now a young man readie to take a wife, vnder∣standing thereof. desired a Ioyner a friend of his, to goe with him to sée the bedstead and to haue his counsaile in it for so much as hée him selfe knew not what such thinges were worth.

The Ioyner went with him, and after the sight, they grew to barganing, but the Ioyner would not suffer the other man to giue the price by fiue shillings and so departed.

Afterward the Ioyner resorteth againe to the house alone and buyeth the bed-slead for his owne proper vse, defrauding his freiud that put him in trust.

O most vnnaturall, diuelish and detestable action, whome shall
Unnumbered page

a man repose his confidence in these our moste daungerous and troublesome dayes and tymes? wherin eniquitie so deceitfully and arrogantly striueth to subiect and deceiue the simple and wel meaning: yea in so much, that the brother séeketh to greiue the brother, and freinds deale so vniust that it is hard to repose con∣fidence in any. A thing to the good odious, but abhorred in the sight of God.

I haue thought good, because I haue published some actions which are alreadie imprinted to manifest (according to the offen∣ders confession at the Sessions house) the reporte, (in this my col∣lection of false dealings and cosonages (the notorious cosenage v∣sed to M. Mascall, which because it is already extant in print. I was the bolder to note it in this collection, to admonish others to beware of the like.


The most notorious cosenage that euer was heard of, how M. Mascall the Trype∣wife was deceiued.

Written as it was spoken by the Offendour before the Honorable at the Sessions-house.
MAscales wife supposed to be left rich at her husbands discease as it séemeth she was, had sundry & many suters amongst the which there was one Pee•ers a gentleman at the least (for all be gentlemen now a dayes) who oft and many times resorted to her house •oying at the last to obtaine her good will but the widdowe carefull enough for her owne good could not by any waies be wun. Whereupon Peters perceiuing that drift as touching mariage to be in vaine determined to get some of her money by other mea∣nes and therfore frequenting her house as before he studied to know the fashions of her house the disposition of her minde the vm¦ber and names of her acquantance friends and so much and so ma∣ny of her secrets as possiblie he might and therwith one Vaughen

View Image - Image 11 (unnumbered page)
Image 11 (unnumbered page)

he went to a woman lying with out Bishops gate fitly instructed for such purposes and there asking for her they met with her hus∣band and betwéene them thrée was great talke, & at the last they went to the taueren where after further spéech ther was a pinte of wine sent vnto the woman that should doe this feate: Not long after they either sent for her to the Tauerne orels they came home to her (I know not whether) but trueth it is, they tolde her what their meaning & determination was, & how that they had heard that shee was the only woman for their purpose: but shee made them answere that in so much as she had béene diuers times be∣fore my Lord A. for such tricks as this was, she durst not be séene in London: for if my Lord should sée me (said shee) he will hang me Then they encouraged her saying that shee shoulde goe in a Cuntrey womans gowne wherby she should not be suspected and she should say she came from a very freind of Mistresse Mascalls dwelling in Essex and in that letter should be commendations of her and so foorth.

When this woman had graunted her consent: Peeters began to certefie her of all that he had learned that was, how Mistresse Mascall had many sutors and how she loued a parchment seller in Parer noster row better then any of them, also hee tolde her that she had aring with fiue precious stones in it, which ring one dwel¦ling vpon London bridge did weare vppon. Christmas day last past.

Hee tolde her also that there vsed to beséene straunge light or fire in the night in her house: as also how that the last time hée kissed her, her hat fell into the souce-tubbe and many other.

Now shée hauing all these ad vnguem (like an olde beaten sol∣dier) would not goe till shée was also well instructed of the man from whōe the letter should be supposed to come and therfore made the two Gentlemen to goe sée what fauour, what haire, what sta∣t•re and condicion the man of Essex was of, least shée should be intrapped.

All things like an apt schollers tale learned by hart. Vaughen makes the letter in effect thus.

Mistresse Mascall after commendations &c. I pray you show the bearer heerof (my speciall freind) what fauour, frend∣ship and curtesie you may for my sake, and so much the rather
Unnumbered page

because she hath done me great pleasure it many things touch¦ing the art she professeth, and I doubt not but she will plea∣sure you the like if you haue any occasion: you may trust her as your self, wherfore I praye you doe for her, as you would doe for me if I were with you. I meane to be at London be∣tweene this and Eastervppon vrgent busines that I haue, and then I meane to see you &c.

This letter after the foresaid forme being framed and sealed vp, the woman in her counerey like gowne taketh and goeth into S Nicholas-shambles, knocketh for M. Mascall and deliuereth the letter: M. Mascall calleth for a cup of béere for the messenger and in the meane time opening the letters and hauing read the contents taketh the woman by the hand and leadeth her vp into her house, and according to the folly of all simple women show∣eth her one roume, after an other, with all the braueries therof, and afterward to victualing and gossiping they goe by the fire, and there sit merely some season.

You may be well assured all this pleased the messenger right well, and now hauing growne into some familiaritie or acquain∣tance the effects of the letter were rehersed: as touching the fauor she had done to M. Freind in matters of her art, and so foorth: Whervppon the trustie Roger (this messenger I meane) began now to woorke her fact and desired M. Mascall to showe her her hand, which she forthwith did, and when she had looked in euerie place of her hand, she tolde her soone matters touching her husbād deceased, and moreouer that she had many sutors, whereof some were good, and other that were naught, from which she diswaded her and gaue her counsaile to take héed of them.

You may haue many (said shée) but yet you loue a parchment seller in Pater noster row aboue the rest, and there is a Gentle∣man that is a sutor vnto you take héed of him said she for hee will deceiue you: what is he said M. Mas. mary quoth the other it is the Gentleman that the last time hée kissed you, he kissed you in such a place by the same token your hat fell into the souce-tubbe.

When M. Mascall heard that shee (as most women light of beleife) thought that shée then knew all things, and therevppon falling into further talke this cunuing woman asked if there was not some vnacoustomed or some straunge sights séene in ye right

View Image - Image 12 (unnumbered page)
Image 12 (unnumbered page)

time her house: Yes marry sayd mistris Mas. but doe you knowe the reasō thereof sayd the other, no sayd mistèris Mas. except ther be some money hid in my house. There is money hid in very truth sayd this cunning woman and that good store: can you help me to it sayd mistris Mars. yea sayd the other and if you will swere to me that you will not make any christian body acquainted with it, thē mistris Mas, as the woman confessed went to a bible that lay vp on the table and swore by the contents of it neuer to open it vnto any. You must vnderstand that the cunning Cosoner liked the falling out of these matters wundrous well for her purpose, and hauing now brought them euen to the very issue, procéeded in or the like order.

Mistresse Mascall if so be, you desire to haue this money that is hid in your house it behooueth you to haue bothe golde and siluer and iewels to present vnto the King of the Feries: I haue sayde the other, and therwith led her vp to her Chesis, and showed her bothe golde, siluer, golde-ringes and a chaine of golde.

Now when shée had séene these, among the rest shée espyed one ring which had fiue stones in it, this ring saide the Cosoner one vpon London-bridge did weare vpon Christmas day last, which was true indéede, and therefore M. Mascall hearing her say so, gaue the more credit vnto her woordes, supposing that shée knew all secrets.

Well these iewels, golde and siluer were brought downe and M. Mascall must put these into the Cosoners lap, with her right hand and there they must rest awhile.

Then shee must put them into M. Mascalls lappe with the like ceremonie, and then M. Mascall taking the foresaid things must goe into euerie reume and euery corner therof must knéele downe and say certaine prayers: which finished, shée must come and put the golde &c. into the cunning womans lap againe with her left hand and she receiuing the same must in like order as the other had done, goe and say prayers in euerie place as before.

All this brought to ripenes there must be a capon and a turkie bought to feast the king of Feries, but this must be doone some two dayes after, in the meane time this cunning woman must haue the custodie and kéeping of the money and •inges till two dayes be ended and in the means time she deliuered to M. Mas.
Unnumbered page

a cloth with two things in it, into which cloth m. Mascall might not dare to looke into during two dayes, and thus the cunning woman departed with the ring, money & chaine leauing nought els but two little stones lapt in a cloth for the same.

Now if conetousnes had not ouermastered her shee had neuer béene taken but vnderstanding what plate that M. Mascall had shée hanged thereafter and therfore caused the forenamed Capon and turkey to be cut and mangled, the hed, féet and hart &c. to be cut off and euery corner of the table one to be laide. a candle bur∣ning, to be set also vpon the table, and all the plate set ther vppon as a present for the king of Feryes, then should they goe to the Tauerne with some of the cunning womans companions, and m, Mascall with them, and the cosoner should get some sure to∣ken from m. Mascall to come home for some thing and the Messe∣ger by that t•ken should bring away the plate, but this effecting not and suspition of cosoning arysing, this cunning woman was apprehended and laid in Newgate and beeing examined before the bench at Sessions house confessed these wordes or the like in effect.


How she cosoned an other woman, confes∣sed by her self at the Sessions house the fourteene of February. 1595.
AFter shée had made an end of her former discourse as she ter∣med it one of the Iudges asked her if she knew a woman that stood therby, shée made answere yes my Lord and an other wo∣man to, whersoeuer shee be, whereuppon it was asked how shée knew her, and shée made answere that about a twelue moneths past, she came to the place where this woman dwelled and enqui¦red of some of her neighbours what Cunterywoman shée was as also what manner of man her husband was, how many chil∣dren, how many boyes, how many Wenches and many such like fitting her determined purpose, which knowen, immediatly shée went to the honest womans house, desiring as it should séem some refreshing for her and her Children.



View Image - Image 13 (unnumbered page)
Image 13 (unnumbered page)

The woman inquisitiue of her state inquired what countrey woman she was, (who knowing ye other to be of the same shire) sayd she was a Lancashire woman and how that for coniuring she was cast in prison and had remained long there. The other woman asked what shée consured for, who answered for money hide, and how for those matters shée was very expert, and there telling her how many children shée had had, how many boyes and how many wenches, how many of them aliue and how ma∣ny dead and many such like before learned questions they grewe to a composition that this cunning woman should helpe her to a pot of money no lesse then thrée hundred pounds, which shée pro∣mised with speed to persourme, and thereupon the poore woman not hauing so much mony as she desired, went to one of her neigh¦bours and borrowed more, so that this coning woman coniured fiue and fiftie shillings out of the poore womans 〈◊〉. So much shée her self confessed at the Sessions house, but the partie dece•∣affirmeth that it was thrée pounds or more.

The foresaid partie deceiued also a rich & gréedy Churle in such sorte that she sadled him and road vpon him as vpon an horse and deceiued many others, but because it is a thing extant in print, I purposely omit them, ending with an odde iest done of late at Islington.


An other:
A Young man and a maide there was dwelling at Islington neare London who in some continuance of time loued mutu∣ally euen almost to the perfection of mariage so that nought re∣mained to stay their intent but the good will of Parents without whose consent the maid scrupuously would not be obtained.

Many sutes and intreaties being made but to small effect, the young man absented him self from his loue some space of time and after the wooing manner courted an other mayde in the towne, in such sorte that the common brute went he should marry with the latter. Wheruppon méeting his former looue in Islington church yarde after some gréeting betwéene them the mayde had God giue him ioy for shée heard say that hée should be asked in the Church the next Sunday. True it is said hée, and I feare no∣thing
Unnumbered page

but that you will forbid the banes, with that he tooke an othe forthwith, rashly you may be bolde to say, as commonly in such causes women are, to prooue that of her faith and troth shée would not forbid the banes.

They departed each from other, the man straight waies to the Clark of the Church, to giue him notice of his owne name, and and this mayde his former looue her name also, and caused them two to be asked banes togither, the mayde and her father & mo∣ther that Sunday béeing at the Church not knowing of it, till o∣ther neighbours & their seruaunts tolde that sure it was she that was asked. The matter examined, hee tolde the father of the maide, what promise his daughter had made, that if he were as∣ked in the Church, shée would not forbid the banes, therfore hée thought good to be asked to her whome so long he had wooed and looued.

Now the Parents seing the matter had gon so far, gaue their consents and so at this present liue honestly together.

I might héer note downe many other cosonages & shiftes, more then the aforesaid, but for breuities sake I will will heer succease, with this caueat, that people beware of many youths & others, who hauing got copper rings, and other such like when they méet such whome they think they may beguile, they will goe is them and say they haue found a golde or siluer ring, and offer to sell it for a small price.

The buyer thinking it to be golde, giues him for it thrise the worth and thinkes that he hath a great peny worth till trueth try the contrarie. Therefore let euerie one beware let not faire wordes make fooles faine, had I wist comes euer to late, shrede surnes to soone, and repentance by leasure.

Ignauiam necssitas acuit, et sepe desperatio spei causa est.

View Image - Image 14 (unnumbered page)
Image 14 (unnumbered page)


A VVORLD OF VVonders.
IT is recorded in auntient monuments that what time Rinaldo ruled this land it raiyned blood thrée dayes, and after that fol∣lowed a tempest of venemous beastes which slew many people.

All this was a forewarning of great punishment to light vpon the Inhabitants in this land that liued not penitently as ensued the next yeare: when so great a mortalitie hapned that this land was almost in desolation. Whatsoeuer therefore (gentle Rea∣der) thou findest in this booke assure thy self that it is written as a memoriall or day-booke for all and euerie of vs dayly and hourely to looke into for the better and speedier amendment of our sinfull liues.

Bladud sometime gouerned this land who cunning in Nigro∣mancie and trusting therto decked himself with feathers and pre¦suming to flye ouer the towne of Bathe broke his neck by falling vpon the Temple which he there had built. A fit rewarde for all such as as vse Nigromancie or any such vnlawfull acts.

At what time Norindus ruled this land a wonderfull monster came out off the irish seas & deuoured much people against which the King him self Neides fought, and was of the same monster cleane deuoured. Beware of fooles hardnes.

Archigallo was twise king of this land and Elidurus his bro¦ther twise disposed, so that he was thrise ruler heerof.

Catillus who ruled this land ten yeares, caused all Extortio∣ners and oppressors of the poore to be hanged, to giue examples to other. I would to God they were so vsed now a dayes: I suppose there would be a great number of vsurers, brokers & sergiaunts.

About thréescore yeares after the birth of Christ, it is supposed that Christianitie came into this land: but diuers write diuersly, for some as Necephorus and Dowthemus say that Simon Zelo∣tes first preached Christ heere. Some say Phillip the Apostle:
Unnumbered page

Some say Ioseph of Armathia that buryed our Lord.

King Arthur conquered thirtie kingtomes such as were in those dayes wherin he liued.

In the raigne of Careticus and Ethelfridus was such ciuil and deadly warres that the most part of this land was buryed & de∣stroyed, and the people that were left faine to flye into Wales, the faithfull of Christ was then almost extinguished, the Brittaines indispaire and in subuersion to the Saxons.

But what is the cause or this prouoking of Gods anger? euen couetousnes, whordome and extortion: Looke vp England, looke vp and repent: those sinnes were then but euen in the budde, now behol•e and repent, for now are they in the fulnes of their flower, and stay but for the frute. Woe are wée whose doyes are so dan∣gerous: But Lord awake in mercie and take pittie on vs.

Then couerend Beda wrote 78. bookes and in his time renou∣med throughout the whole worlde.

When Bytiricus ruled this land it rained blood yea that fel on peoples clothes appeared like crosses.

When this land was stored with Wooules, the Princes of VVales payed 300. Wooules euerie yeare to the King of Eng∣land for at that time might scarce two be found vntill the yeare 994. neither feuer nor flix nor murren of Cattle were knowen in this land.

In the time of king VVilliam the Conquerour was scarcitie and dearth that men did eat horsses, cats, dogges yea and mans flesh.

Anno 1093, was such a famine that therof sprang such and so great a mortalitie that the quick were scant able the dead.

Also in the yeare 1099. we read that blood sprang out of ye earth at Finchamstead in Barkshire.

Much about this time the water of the riuer of Trent at Not∣tingham was dryed vp from one of the clock till thrée.

The like defection of water did the Theames at Londen bridg suffer about foure yeares after.

The 24. of February at Tewxbury being then their Faire, such number of flyes and kyttles dammed Seuern that for the length of a Buts shot were in mens iudgement estéemed abooue a hundred quarters.



View Image - Image 15 (unnumbered page)
Image 15 (unnumbered page)

A wunder of wunders befel in England throughout 1133. for there was great darknes throughout all the land and the Sunne appeared no otherwise then as the Moone when she is in her last quarter.

Giraldus Cambrencis in his booke of the discription of Wales telleth that in the Cuntrey Kemanies, yea in his time a young man named Se••illus borne in those parts, was so tormented wt toades as though all the toades in the Cuntrey had beene gathe∣red together to vex him, and when as innumerable numbers of them were killed by those that kept him, & by others of his friends and kinsmen, yet came they still increasing in greater numbers then before, insomuch that when his acquaintance perceiued no help, after many assayes they loped all the boughes and leaues of a very high trée and closed him in a coffin made for the purpose so hoisted vp into the said high trée, but notwithstanding poore S•i∣sillies was still molested with them. for they créeping vp wun∣derfull heapes left him not til they had eaten him vy to bare bones and so dyed.

About Orford in Suffolk certaine fishers tooke in their nettes a fish in all pointes shaped like a man, which fish was half a yeare kept in Orford Castle for a wunder. Hée would eat all man∣ner meat but most gréedily raw fish, he was shewed in no kinde of worship. Aftermen had wundred at him, hée was little e∣stéemed of and so not béeing looked vnto stole away and was neuer heard of. 1188.

In the yeare 1230. a suddain darknesse chaunced in Poules-Church euen at seruice time so oue could scantly sée an other: Also bout thrée or foure yeare afterward, fiue sunnes to be séene in the ayre as also two great dragons flyingand fighting together du∣ring a whole day, the one day chased the other to the déepe sea.

After all these followed great warres and troubles in England Wales. &c.

Beholde all Cornehourders a wunderfull example not fained but by sufficient testimonies to be approued done euen at home.

In the yeare 1234 was a dearth in England as true histories recorde (euen as now also there is) so that many dyed for want of victualls. The richmen as now a dayes were dwelled with co∣uetousnes, so that they would not releiue them that were in ne∣cessite
Unnumbered page

Amongst whome (a thing worthy noting) was one Wal∣ter Gray Arch-bishop of Yorke, whose corne béeing fiue yeares olde, doubted that the vermine would destroy it, and therfore cōmaunded to deliuer it to husband men, that dwelt in his manours vppon condicion as much new corne after the next haruest, and would distribute none of it to the poore for Gods sake.

Now it fortuned that when the men came to a great stacke of corne that stoode néere to the towne of Rippon belonging to the said Archbishop and had opened the corne, there appeared in the sheaues the heds of wormes and of toades, and horrible serpents, yea and a voice was heard out of the mowe saying lay no handes one that corne for the Archbishop and all that he hath is the diuels.

This being heard, the left it, and the bayliffes of the Towne were faine to build an high wall round about the corne, and then to set it one fire least the venemous venime should haue gonne out to haue poysned the corne in other places.

Beholde this true example and repent thou couetous richman and doe good while time is offered thée, and God will blesse thée the better,

A sea-bull was taken passinge the thames as far as Mortlake to the 25. yeare of the reigne of King Richard the 3.

It is most aproued that in the sayd Kings raigne ther dwelled in the Dioces of Lincolne a woman of noble birth, both well fa∣uored and beautifull who being married to a rich man in that cur¦try beare to her husband many children and yet not with stāding (wonderfull to tell) the sayd woman got another gētle with child and begate of her thrée sonnes one after an other or euer the ma•er came to light the woman were named Hauissia and Lucia.

In King Edward the 2 raigne flesh of beasts was so corrupted that men durst not eate therof, such murraine of beasts and cattell was then that men and women stole Cattes and did eate their owne children, some fatte dogges, horses & such like. Prisoners, plucked in peeces such as came newly to them as prisoners & eate them haule a liue so greeuous a mortalitie of people folloged that vneth the quicke were able to bury the deade. Lord deliuer vs from the like.

About Chippyngnorton in Oxfordshire in the yeare 1344, was found a monsterous serpent, hauing two heads and two fa∣ces

View Image - Image 16 (unnumbered page)
Image 16 (unnumbered page)

like women one face attired of the new fashion of attyres then sprung vp, and the other face atired after the olde ci•ll fa∣shion and like a bat or •••n•er mouse.

And shall wee not say those were tokens of Gods wrath sent to mooue vs to repentance and leauing of our new deuised pride of apparrell.

But what then may be sayd of the straunge birds or fowles ta∣ken by Richard Waller, and Richard Preston, within the Pa∣rish of Crowell in Lincolne shire, euen euen the other day in ••r memories in the yeare 1586 which birds w••ed enter•••t ••l∣lors hauing fethers vpon then heads or fronts growing & stand∣ing out very like the frisled and curled haire of most men and wo∣men in these dayes, yea hauing also great feathers / about their neckes growing and standing very high, very euen and in the very forme of our greatest set of ruffes, being diuersly coullored held vp with 〈◊〉 quilles resembling the wyers commonly cal∣led supporters, which woord (in my iudgment) right fitteth the matter for that in very trueth they are the supporters of sinne and of many iniquities.

If wee further consider how these foules beeing taken would walke thrée and thrée togeither in most stately forme, and after∣wards turning bill to bill stood as it were consulting, it might be imagined they did but resemble the most •proude, stately, and scornefull footesteps of women in these our dayes as also their go∣ssops talks and inuentions of new••nd tayles and behauiour.

But gentlewomen consider what you are and whereto you must turne: A apainted wall is but a deceite to the buyer, and a paynted body is but a deceiuing of the soule.

Consider that a simple soule surpasseth thousands of the moste gorgious attired bodies of this world: Leaue off the pride of the Pecock and take the humility of the Doeue, for when age draw¦eth vpon you you your selues will repent your former pride, and acknowledge it méere vanitie.

Vppon Christmas day in the the 25. yeare of the raigne of L. Richard the second a Dolphin came out of the sea euento London bridge showing himselfe playing but after there followed great tempests.

The posterne gate of London néere the Towre in King Hen∣ry
Unnumbered page

the sixt dayes sunck more then seuen foote into the earth at the same season.

Wonderfull and straunge it is to tell how in the 1594, the bodie of one Alce Hackney which had béene buried in the Church of Saint Mary-hill in London by the space of one hundred thrée score and fiftéene yeares was taken out of the ground by a graue maker, bothe whole of skinne and also her ioynts plyable, not de¦minished.

This body being also so taken vp, is reported that after so long time lying in the earth to lye foure dayes abooue ground to the vein of all commers, not smelling nor anoying of any, and then buryed againe,

This (as it séemeth to mée) veryfieth the saying of reueend Bede our Cuntreyman, who affirmeth that there be thrée dayes in a yeare wherein whosoeuer is borne the bodies shall not con∣sume vntill the day of Iudgement.

In the yeare 1552 at Middleton eleuen myles from Oxford, a woman brought foorth a Childe with two bodies from the na∣uill in such sorte that when they lay at length the one body & hed lay as it were east-ward, and the other hed and body lay west west-ward, the legs for ye bodies grew out at the midst wheras the bodies ioyned and they had but one issue for both the bodies.

These were women children and liued eightéene dayes,

About that time when the Gray-f•yers was made an hospitall, ten great Dolphins were taken and brought to London the least wherof, was bigger then a horse.

Straunge it is to consider how God sundry times in most mi∣raculous sorte prouideth for the poore, as may be read in the dayes of Quéene Mary.

The twentie six of Nouember 1575. a Poulters wise in Christ Church parish within Newgate was deliuered and brought to bed of foure daugghters all aliue.

A place by the seaside all of hardstone and pebles commonly called a shelf, lying betwéene Oxford and Alborough in Suffolk, wheras neuer was knowen to be either grasse or earth, but al∣waies bare and barren, suddainly by Gods appointment sprang out of the fame without labour or till age such great abundaunce of peason that the poore Inhabitaunts there gathered (as it was

View Image - Image 17 (unnumbered page)
Image 17 (unnumbered page)

then iudged) aboue one hundred, quarters and yet notwithstan∣ding there still remained pease some rype some gréene and some in the blossome, euen in as a great a quantitie as they were before they were gathered.

About the same time also a great fish was taken threescore féet in length very swéet and pleasant to be eaten.

In the yeare 1557. before haruest was such a dearth, that wheat was solde for foure marks the quarter, mault for fortie foure shillings, pease at fortie six shillings the quarter, but it plea¦sed God to send such a haruest, to ensue presently vpon that dearth that wheat was solde for fiue shillings a quarter, mault for an no∣ble, Rye for ten grotes, and all this so solde at London, in the cuntry it was better cheape.

Let vs repent vs of our wickednes and begine to loue one an other as we ought, and doubt we not but God will euen now doe the like for vs in this our dearth although in mans iudgement it presumptio•s may be made to the contrary.

More monsterous births befell in the yeare 1562 then in ma∣ny yeares before.

A Mare brought foorth a foale with one body and two heads and a thing like a tayle growing sut betweene the heads.

Also a Sow farrowed a pigge with foure legs like to thearmes of a man childe, with hands and figers.

Also there was an other Sow which farrowed a pigge with two bodyes, eight féete and but one head.

Diuers children and beastes were brought into the world in monsterous formes but most to be noted, is how many had resem∣blances of ruffs growing about their necks and this without fa∣ble.

The xvij, of February 1570. at a place called Kinnaston néer Marclech hill in Herefordshire, a straunge thing was séene that was the ground to open. and the ground with certaine rocks to remooue, and went forward for the space of foure or thrée dayes to wit satterday, sunday and munday, and in fiue and twentée houre it remooued fortie paces euerie pace fiue foote carrying both trees and shéepecoates yea shéepe and all in them, some trees fall∣ing into the chinkes others remaning firme as before others that to fore stood east stand now west: et sic econtra.


Unnumbered page

Kinaston Chapell was ouerthrowne with it, and two high wayes laned with hedges and trées are remooued trées and all an hundred yards from their acc•ustomed places, where ••llage ground was, there it was pasture left in place therof, and wher∣as pas•ure ground lay there tillage ground hath gone vpon it, the ground as it was mooued draue the earth before it, and at the lower part euer whelmed the ground so that it is nowe great hil highted abooue twelue fadome: it brake out at first in depth thir∣tie foote, the breadth of the earth béeing eightscore yardes, and the ground in all being twentie six Acres.

The like also hapned within these two yeares, beeing a wun∣derfull example and worthy the marking.

The 9 of Iuly 1274, in the Ile of T•net a monsterous whale was taken, who wanting water dyed with such roaring that he was heard a mile off. His length was two and twentie yardes one of his eyes beeing taken out was more then six horsses could draw in a cart▪ a man might stand vpright in the place, wherout his eye was taken: between his eyes was twelue foote in length, three men might stand vpright in his mouth: his ribbes being six∣téene foote long, his liuer was two cart load, and any man might créep into his nos•rels, which was wunderfull.

A wounderfull and a notable Example for such as vse swea∣ring and forswearing them selues.

Anne Auery comming into the house of one Williamson in Woodstreat in London to buy six poundes of Towe or hardesse, hauing had the towe and béeing demaunded money after many vaine spéeches and filthy oathes desired of God that shée might sinck where shée steed if shée did not pay for it. God who is iust, sent his iust iudgement vpon her so as forthwith shée sunck down vnto the ground, not able to stand, the vse of that her blasphe∣mous tongue being taken away, and shee remaining speachlesse cast vp at her mouth (that vessell of sinne) the filth and ordure of her body in great quantitie and with horrible shucking, which by natures course should haue béen voided downeward, and in it is sorte continued which was not long till she dyed.

I might héere also put you in minde of the like periured called father Lea, dwelling about Foster lane, but to the wise this may be a warning: as for such as are commonly called knights of the

View Image - Image 18 (unnumbered page)
Image 18 (unnumbered page)

I c•n in conscience think no otherwise but that they are euen re∣probates hated of God and beloued of the diuell. God for his Christes sake giue them grace to repent and amend.

Euen as before is saide as concerning periury, so in a manner may bee sayde of other enormities, as of whordome, hardnes of hart to the poore, vnmercifulnes of bretheren and such like, in which extremitie, God neuer leaueth such as trust in him, as may well be séene by the peason growing in the rock before mentioned as also by one William Lumley a poore man dwelling in Elme∣ton in the countie of Worcester who being cast into prison & there continuing. within thrée dayes after his imprisonmēt had a mare which foalded vnto him a mare foale, which immediatly after had such an vdder of milk that shee gaue for a long time together euerie day thrée pyntes of milke to the great comfort of his poore wise and children. A wunderfull prouidence of God and wor∣thy to be noted especially of such as hauing superfluitie yet euen for the smallest debts care not to what trouble and hard imprison¦ment they put their poore bretheren that God suffers to want for their further indgement and condempnation I feare except they repent and be mercifull as Christ him selfe is and hath commaun¦ded vs to be so likewise.

Marke héer an notable example of such as practice any vnlaw∣full artes.

The 17 of Ianuary, 1577, Simon Penbrooke dwelling in Saint Georges Parish in Southwarck suspected for a Coniurer, and therefore summoned to appeare before the Ordinarie, at S, Sauiours Church, standing by his proctor, when euen as the Iudge came in hée fell downe ratling in the throate, and neuer spoke woord but dyed presently: in whose clothes were found fiue diuelish bookes of coniuration and a picture of a man made of tyn, hauing thrée dice in his hand with this writing: chance dice for∣tunately. A fit rewarde for such vile varlets as make lawfull artes ill spoken of, and detested by their vngodly vses and practise of diuelish deuises.

But sith I am now rehearsing of wounders and woundrous shapes, I will héere declare as straunge a matter as euer was heard of.

In the yeare 1588, was a widdow named Margaret Owen,
Unnumbered page

aged thréescore yeares who had an horne foure inches long moste miraculously growing out of her forehed downe to her nose, and there crooked towardes her right eye, and was then growing so fast that shée was faine to cut it, least it should blemish her sight.

The woman was to be séene aswell in London as in other pla¦ces of this Realme, neither can any naturall cause bee knowen thereof, but a wounder that God hath sent.

Many are the reportes, but whether they be true or no I leaue to your iudgments: for some affirme that in her youth shée was not so loyall to her husband as dutie ought, and that diuers times there hath béene spéeches tending to that purpose betwéene her husband and her, wherupon hée suspscting flying fame to be true, that shée was light of behauiour. & charging her with it in these tearmes, that she had giuen him the horne, it is said, that shée not only denyed it, but wished of God that if shee had giuen her hus∣band the horne, that shée might haue one horne growing out of her owne forehead as a witnesse against her to the wounder of the world: (God only knoweth whether it were so or not) if it were, I counsaile all other aswell men as women to looke to them selues and not to commit sinne vpon sinne: first, in committing such an horrible offence and adultrie: and secondly to cloake the same, to call vengeance on their heds. Remember the woman that for∣sware her self for a small summe of money: the olde saying is: It may be spoke in such an houre, as God may say Amen.

This woman inhabited in Wales in the Tawneand parish of Llhau Gaduaine in the Countie of Moungomrye and at the roote of this horne beganne, an other hard knot euen as the other beganne which shée vsed to cut of least it should prooue also an o∣therhorne.

The mercifull and louing kindnesse of god vnto sinfull people hath and is so greate that he longe time suffereth vs before he pu∣nisheth nay he seldom punisheth except he vse some maruelous operation before hand to moue to repetance to forwarne vs of the anger depending our heads, as fatherly admonitions, as may well be perceiued, by this that followeth.

About the yeare 1579 or there abouts, in Aberwick in the parrish of Agglingham in the county of Northumberland, dwelled one Iohn Vrine a piper, vnto whome it pleased God to

View Image - Image 19 (unnumbered page)
Image 19 (unnumbered page)

send by his wife Elianor a daughter, and by reporte a goodly childe.

The wife being deliuered and each thing (as in such causes re∣quireth) ordered the midwife glad of the womans saftie. called the sayd Iohn Vrine to his wife, and tolde him that it had plea∣sed God to send him a goodly daughter.

A daughter quoth he with a sterne and angery countenance, if it be a daughter the diuell take my parte for me, for it is none of myne: and so departed murmuring, withont any thankes-gi∣uing to God for her saffe deliuerance but rather tempting God, as most of vs doe, God be mercifull vnto vs, but marke the se∣quell.

A yeare or two after about the yeare 1580 which is not long since that it may be forgoten, or fained as a lie, it pleased God to send his wife to be with childe againe, and to be deliuered of a monster, a male according to his desier, hauing the shape of two Children, from the shoulders vpward it had two heads, ha∣uing naturall proportions, sauing that the one eare of each head was shapened like an horse eare, aud the other like a swine. The body greater then vsuall, ha•ing two féete, and two armes, proportionable, and was borne dead.

Loe here God his iudgment sent vpon him that murmured a∣gainst his creator, what would he haue sayd if it had pleased God to haue sent him this, when he sent him the daughter? But he séeing this wonderfull worke, as it is reported, accknowledged his offence, and cryed to god for mercy: which God graunt vn∣to vs all, he that shed his bloud vpon the trée for vs. Anen


A memoriall of certaine most notorious witches, and of their dealings
THere dwelled not so long since, but shat of some it may be re∣membred. In Barking in Essex seuen miles distraunt from London a Witch named mother white-coate alias mother Ar∣uold alias mother Glassenbury who committed many execrable factes, as may appeare.

There was dwelling in Barking one Thomas Clark a fisher who hauing angred this witch, went foorth in mackerel
Unnumbered page

time to catch flounders, and he and two boyes sayling downe al∣most as farre as Lée where they cast out his nets, in the same place was such an neddy that he could by no meanes woork, nei∣ther his nets come in order, as they should do, but vpon a sodaine this Clarke cryed out and sayd that he sawe mother Arnolde the witch walking in the water, and withall cryed the spirit en∣tred into him and mooued him to kill him selfe so that hee tooke a hatchet, a hooke and a knife and threw them ouerbourd and af∣ter tyed he himselfe about the middle with a rope and so fell mad, so that the boyes cryed vnto other fishermen, who séeking to help him, there was a whirlepoole that had almost cast them a∣way so that none durst come neer them, atlength a boat of Green wich perceiuing the whirle poole threw a roape vnto them and so plucked him into his boate and so brought him home to Barking where he remained mad, and lying still bound cryed out of mo∣ther Arnold, and in the end dyed thus tormented.

The said mother Arnold going in precession with other her neighbours in gangwéek and William Daulbie seeing her very liuely came vnawares behinde her and strooke vp her heeles gi∣uing her a fall, and after thrust him self into the prease of the peo∣ple to the intent she might not know who did it, but she arysing came immediatly to him taking him by the hand thanked him for her fall, and sayd she would be euen with him.

They went to one Malles house a mile and a half from Bark∣ing where she complained of the young man and after some victu¦alls giuen her by the good wise went homeward againe.

Malles wise and Daulbie going to Barking togither a good pace but could set no eye of her, till they came by Barking, where she sat a praying vnder a trée, and so passed by her, and so went home, where béeing not a quarter of an houre, but Daulbie was so miserably vexed, that he sought to kill himself, thrust his hedde into the swilling tub full of swines meat, where he had smothered him self if help had not preuented it.

Then would he haue runne into an hotte ouen to the burning fire brands with his téeth that hée burned his mouth and lippes very sore: when night came his friends had him to bed, but his vexation growing wursie and wursse and he féeling his bowels burne within him (as a pot séething on the fire) could not indure

View Image - Image 20 (unnumbered page)
Image 20 (unnumbered page)

the bed but lay for the most part all the night out of a windowe which hée so byted with his téeth that it may be perceiued still, so long as the window endureth, and in these miserable cases conti∣nued. At last helped by an other witch, was at the Asssses bound to appeare at Burnt wood where hée gaue evidence against mo∣ther Arnold in the hearing ofher owne daughter, who after came to him and saide you haue giuen shrode euidence against my mother but you will be little better for it. And the next night following, rysing to make water was stroken in the neck that hee fell sick and was faine to be brought from Burnt wood to Rainford in a Cart, and so from thence home, béeing pitiously vexed till he gaue vp the ghost.

WHen Master Clement Sisley Esquire had examined this witch and tolde her shée should goe to prsson the wiech desired that shée might not goe to prison, for the spirit would be reuenged as it hapned when hée tooke paper in his hand to make his war∣rant suddainly both his féete were taken from him by reason wherof, he fell on a plaine pauement of frée stone in his owne house at Tastburyhall and strook out the huckle bone of his thigh out of the ioynt, so that for thrée wéekes space he could not goe, nor stand along time after her erecution but vsed stiles for necessi¦ties sake.

But before he committed her to the Iaiole, he caused her to be searched by honest wiues who betwéene her kercheif and her hat found wrapped in a linnen cloth swines dung, the herb cherwell dill, red fenell and saint Iohns woort, the right hand or forefoote of a Moulewarp, which vpon the opening so stanck that no per∣son could abyde it.

After the finding of this shee knéeled downe vppon her knées, desiring them if she might not haue the whole, yet to let her haue some part therof, but the same by the commaundement of the Iu∣stice was burned.

IF I should write at full the manifold mischeifes of this most detestable practicioner, they would fill a great volume, as how she lamed Newman of Stratforde a tanner, how shée stole
Unnumbered page

an handchercher from his wife and after fiue dayes kéeping it sent it backe againe by one of her neighbours▪ who deliuering it, faire, and white, to Newmans mayd, presently there fell thrée dropps of bloud vpon it one after another, and the mayd amazed giuing it to her mistris it became all ouer red as bloud most won¦derfull.

Also how shee vexed one Harison béeing a Dutch man méeting him at Mile-end and stroke him so lame that he was faine to hire a horse, to carry him home, and bewitched him dumbe, that he could not speake: and made his horse to shake, aud dance, for the space of one whole yeare.

Also how she threatned George Male at the Grayhound at Barking that for so much as he thrust her and her daughter out of his doores and would giue them nothing, this witch threatned that shée would set a Bée in his tayle the next time. Yea and that a stinger sayd the daughter. So not long after he determining to ride, put on a new payre of hose with a double rugge in them prysed fortie shillings, the first day of his riding he was so tickled in the buttocke, that he scratched through all, both hose and ly∣nings and such a hole in his slesh, that it was not whole a m•∣neth after.

Many other mischeifs might be héere numbred, but I meane not to stand long vppon these detestable actions only this to be noted, that béeing often examined, when she was to answere sud∣dainly there rose in her throate a swelling as bigge as a mans fist, black as pitch, and then she seemed to haue the hitchcough, as though she would speake but could not, and in this case the ex∣aminers would strike her on the brest but she required them not to doe so: And when she was executed such a stincking vapour issued foorth of her mouth that the behoulders were scantlye able to endure it. All which is moste wounderfull.

I might héere noate the cruell deuises of mother Bumby the witch of Rochester: the tirannie of the witches of VVarboys. and many other, but for breuities sake I omit thē, putting them in memorie of one the moste straunge of all other, committed in March 1592. néer Harrow on the bill.

One Master Edling hauing a barne at the townes end, his seruant Richard Bucte going thether with a mastiue dogge af∣ter

View Image - Image 21 (unnumbered page)
Image 21 (unnumbered page)

him, suddainly espied an haire to fiart before him and set his dogge at her, but the mastiue refusing the chase ran round about the fellow whyning pittiefully, but the fellow left not till he saw the hare take in at one mother Atkins house, knowen to be a no∣torious witch.

The fellow perceiuing this, blessed him self and bad auaunt witch, which turned to his woe for a moneth after or there about he going to his masters barne againe met this mother Atkins and bad her good morrow, but the witch would not answere.

The next day hee went to the barne againe and carryed with him his dinner and going to his victualls about noone hee sawe a monsterous black cat, among the strawe shaking it, wherat Ri∣chard rising vp from whence he sat, heard avoice commaunding him to come away.

Come away thought he whether shall I come? the voice sayde againe come away and leaue thy victualls behinde thée and thy knife also: the fellow amazed went with his victualls in his hand to the barne doore and there was hoisted vppe suddainly into the ayre and carryed ouer many feilds by the way espying his ma∣sters plough plowing but not able to call to them from thence he was hoistedouer to Harrow ouer that side of the hill, whereon there is a great pond of water through which was drawne moste piteously that there he lost his hat and then was violently rapt vp the hill, and ouer the toppes of the trees by Harrow church but béeing haled further, he was taken into a place which was al fire wherin was such lamentable crying and howling as all the dam∣ned •oules had béene there, such stuicks, such darknes, s•ch noise and such heat that it made him so thristie that he knew not what to doe: where vpon he hauing but one peny in his pursse remem∣bred it, and looked round about for an alehouse where hee might spend it. But perceiuing no such matters but hearing varietie of voices supposing some had spoken vnto him he replyed saying, heere is no woorke for me to doe, it was reanswered againe, coast away with him with this pro•iso, that thou bee seceret when then commest home: whereuppon Richard sayd my ma∣ster wi•l a•ke mee where I haue béen and with that his tounge was doubled in his mouth that he could not speake, his legges burned, his armes and hands scorched, his coate pinched of his
Unnumbered page

back and throne into the fire and immediatly was again coasted ouer hedges and ditches seu•ed in myre and durt scratched with thornes and bryers and finally to beddawbed, singed and diffigu∣•ed that it was moste lamentable to beholde him.

Thus being brought againe to his wouted place or dwelling he went to a ditch to drink and after to a freind of his being now absent foure dayes & as then able to speake, his master not know∣ing him at the first, but afterwards with much a doe his tounge being vnfoulded he tolde all the storie as you haue heard & would not be quieted till hee had drawne blood of mother Atkins since which time hée is amended.

Thús haue you heard the mostnotorious fact that euer witch¦craft hatched, omitting many other, from all which our good God deliuer vs. Amen.


A MASSE OF Murthers.
IT is read that sometime Bithricus ruled in this land of Eng∣land and was poysoned by his owne wife.

A widow dwelling without Aldgate in London in the dayes of King Henry the sixt was murthered for her goodes: the murde∣passing by the place where hee had committed the fact, was kil∣led with stones, shéepes hornes, kennell doung and such like by the women of that parish that threw them at him: and this was the rewarde of murther.

In the raigne of King Henry the eight a straunger was hang∣ed in chaines for staying his master one Capon in a garden for his harlot. Loe héer the proffit and good of harlots.

Much about that time was Margaret Dauie a mayde seruant boyled in Smithfeeld for poysoning of thrée seuerall houshoulders

View Image - Image 22 (unnumbered page)
Image 22 (unnumbered page)

with whome she had dwelled.

In the 5 yeare of King Edward the sixt, Master Arden of Fe∣uersham in Kent, was murdered by the consent of his owne wise for which fact she was burned at Canterbury.

In the yeare 1554 a spaniard was hanged at Charing-crosse for killing of an englishman.

In the yeare 1571. Rebecca Chambers, was burnt 〈…〉 of her husband.

A moste shamefull murder was committed about the twentie foure of May the same yeare by one Martin Bullock in this sort, Bullock had procured a Merchant named Arthur Hall to come to the personage house of Saint Martins in Thrednéedle streat, in London, to buy plate of him: wherupon this Hall veiuing the mark of the plate, sayde, this plate is none of yours master Bul∣lock for it hath Doctor Gardners mark vppon it, and I knowe it to be his: that is true sayd Bullock, but he hath appointed mée to sell it for him. Now Bullock suspecting this robberye thus to be detected, ran into a further condemnation both to God & man: for whilst Arthur Hall was waying the plate, Bullock goes in∣to the kitchen and fetcheth a heauie washing betle wherwith hee camming behinde Hall, strooke him on the head that he feld him with the first stroke, and then stoooke him againe. and after tooke Halls owne dagger and stickt him. with his knife cut his throte, and after would haue trussed him in a •ans• chest, but the same was to short: Wheruppon he turned him downe a payre of stares thinking to bury him in the sellor but he being stiffe and the sell•• stares narrow and winding he could not drawe him down, wher∣fore tooke an hatchet and cut off his legs and trussed him vp with strawe in a dryfat saying it was his apparell and bookes and cau∣sed it to be carryed to the water side and caryed to Rye.

The yeare 1573 was one hanged in chaines in Saint Geor∣ges •eild néere London for murthering the Iaylour of Horsham •n the sayd seild.

The 25 of March 1573 George Saunders a merchaunt was murthered most shameefully by George Browne by the instigati∣on of his owne wife and other her complices.

A youngman was hanged in chaines at Miles end néer Lon∣don the seuenteene of February for murdering a man in a Gar∣den.


Unnumbered page

In White Chaple parish néer London in the yeare 1584 dwel¦led one Cornelius an enteandishman a shoomaker, who had his wife lying sick some certaine time, this woman had a Daughter maryed to one Arnold a Cobler, who retayned into his seruice a Dutch mayde béeing his néer kinswoman, and Arnolds wife had a sonne also being a youth of reasonable yeares, who whilste the mayde was in the house, would often be familier with her, yet no¦thing suspected for any lewd dealings betwixt them, till Corneli∣us his wife dyed, and the mayde went to dwell with Cornelius, wherupon: his youth get the maide with childe, and was partly séene dooing the déede by a little boy the Cunstabies sonne of that precinct, which tolde it to his fellow seruants: who nothing re∣garding his wordes sayd not any thing therof, so that the mayde béeing tall and of a reasonable proportion went so long wt childe till the time of her labour vnsuspected, which time of trauell hap∣ned euen the self same day that her mistresse should be buryed, at what time the housholde busied in winding the dead corps, this mayde departing from the women, went to aback chamber in the further parte of the house and after seme small time, was deliue∣red none beeing néer the place, but the forenamed boy who wrou¦ght in the roume vnderneath.

When she was deliuered, she endeuored to strangle it, by lay∣ing her hand vppon the mouth of it, but the Childe beeing strong cryed so that the boy in the neither ro•••e heardit, wherupon shée tooke a knife and laying the childe vpon the fiares cut the throate of it so déep, that a man might haue laid seure fingers in ye woūd, and hauing thus ended her most vnnaturall fact, cast it into the priuie, and went about her busines, without any signe or suspici∣on of any such filthines.

But the boy partely perceiuing that it was the maides childe, went priuely to one of the chei• seruaunts and tolde him what he had heard, and that partie tolde it afterwards to one of the neigh¦bours, whereuppon the cry of the Childe came in question. & she to examination aud search, where shée confessed the matter, and thereuppon the childe was taken vp and bad the law, and she com∣mitted to prison, had iudgement according to her defert and was executed at Tibourne.



View Image - Image 23 (unnumbered page)
Image 23 (unnumbered page)

But this one thing is to be noted that being demaunded of the wiues who gaue her that vunaturall minde & mischeiuous help, so to kill the Childe, aunswered that the diuell was with her aud helped her to dispatch it in that manner. Thus much haue I thought good to note at large, forasmuch as it is more vsuall then any other and is the more odious, inasmuch as it is engendred of two most horrible actions: First, of whoredome or adulterie which is wursse: secondly, of murther. Let this then be a look∣ing glasse to all maydes wherin to vei• the rewarde of silthines least they in••rre the like daunger and penaltie.

I Flosse of welth affray thy minde,
If sicknes dyre oppresse thy hart:
If losse of freinds alyed by kinde,
If all or more tormet with smart,
Yet help in time only succour these,
Before colde death dooth clame his fees.
But if that mae den head be wrackt:
Then may dens name and fame are cracke.
And cannot be restorde againe:
But dooth her stock with blemish staine.
No he•th, no welth, no foe, ne freind,
Can breach of may denhed amend.
Beware then may des I you exhort,
Ioue, liue and dye in honest sorte.

A most notorious mnrther committed by an Inkee∣pers wife in Lincolneshyre vppon a trauailer, a matter woorthie to be knowen of all Trauallers.
AN honest man trauailing vpon busines into Lincolneshyre, not beeing able to reach so farre as hée purposed the day wax∣ing toward an end, hee himself wearyed, and hauing some charge of money, ryding through Carthrope not far distant from New∣ort vpon Trent vnderstanding of lodging in the Towne, at the house of one Tompson a man of honest reputation, went ••ether, requesting the good wife of the house that he might haue lodging,
Unnumbered page

and in secret sort opened to her what store of money he had, and requested a chamber where his charge might be safe, the wife ve∣ry willing g•aunted and seemed so carefull that shée would that night lodge none that might be suspected persons: Supper prepa∣red and ended this trau•ler going to bedde laid, his money vnder his beds head, hauing locked the dore and the key sticking in the inside.

The hostesse and the rest of her Famely gone to bed, for ye good∣man of the house was rydden from home about certaine busines, and knew nothing of this, the hostesse incensed by the diuell could not rest for casting in her minde how to get the trauallers money wherfore when shée thought euerie one was in their dead sleape, she went to the Chamber dore where the traualler lodged, and hauing a sleight to open the lock by a little hole in the doore shée went in and found the mans knife, (see héer the subtletie of sathan) to direct her to his knife as the instrument, which shée tooke out of the sheathe, and laying her hand vpon his mouth that hee might not cry out cut his throate with his •wne knife, and beeing thus mortally wounded, he began to struggle with her but all in vai•• for shée soone b•reaued him of his best ioy in this world and tooke away the money.

Now to couer this her abhominable act shée fastned the mans hand to the knife, which she left sticking in his throate, and so de parted. Her smock bloodded in the action (other clothes she had not vppon her when she committed the fact) she put off and put on a cleane one, hyding the other, least by that meanes shee might come in suspition by her seruants: for none of them were made priuie what money the traualler had.

The morning comming, she with her houshold arose, and no∣thing was sayde till the day drawing well on, shee sayde to her maydes that she maruelled that the trauailer lay so long, hauing a iourney to goe, and therupon, bad one of her maydes goe vp to sée if he were styring, w•o knocking at the doore and hearing no answere, at last thrust open the doore by force and went in, finding this most lamentable spectacle. The mayde amazed ran downe, and tolde her mistresse, who after a most vi•• fashion counterfai∣ted swooning, but was comforted by neighbours.

A guest is pannel•, verdict giuen, that he him self was guilty

View Image - Image 24 (unnumbered page)
Image 24 (unnumbered page)

of his owne death and theruppon to persecute the maymed corps yei further if it might be he was buryed out of christian mans •u¦ryal and so was it for thrée or foure monthes husht vp.

But what is it that God in his secret iudgement wi•l not dis∣close though it séeme never so impossible? about thrée or fours mo∣nethes after, this Inkéepers wife caryed out her blouded smocke to a poore woman in the towne desiring her towash it saying that she had sticked a pig and her maydes had no leasure to washe it, the woman tooke it: beholde a wounder, murder cannot be hidde the more the woman we shed it thee more fresher began the blood to looke and the cloth the more blacker, which so amazed the poore womman and troubled her in minde so that shée could not be quiet till shée had tolde the Counstable, who immagining what after prooued trueth, tooke other of his neighbours and went to the In∣kéepers wife who after some examinations confessed the matter, and had the law at Lincolne and was executed for the same.

A wounderfull example it is and worthy to be noted and remem¦bred aswell of Inkeepers to keep sure lecks without counterfeit keyes, as also to take héed what seruants they keep to be of honest reputation.

Not far from Lincolne at a towne called Bourne were thrée bretheren whereof one was a countrey mercer who had maryed a very honest woman who had of hec owne a prettie peece of land, so dispose as shee thought good during her life, and after to come to her husband if he suruiued.

Her husband this mercer being an vnthrift would haue had his wire to haue s••lde this land, which no waies she would consent vnto, beeing surely perswaded that beeing gone, to haue nought left to help her self withall. This her husband not preuayling, brake his minde to his other two bretheren, wherof one was a butcher who counseled him t deale extreamly, with her who not preuailing, they met all thrée at the mercers house and their con∣concluded to murther her, threatning the maide of the house is kill her also if she bewrayed them wheruppon they forced her to holde the candle while they did the deede, for the butcher after his butcher like trade qu•kly dispatched her of her life. But the mayd going abroade reuealed the matter wherupon they were appre∣hended,
Unnumbered page

and had the law accordingly.

Wonder it is to sée to what fond affections and most wicked and abhominable practises we are lead to for want of grace: some to murther for welth as in this example, and also the example vpon Towre hill where the sealer killd the widow for her goodes, Nottingham also can testifie it where one kiled his owne mother for her lands, and many other, some vpon harbrannes as Glouer who killed Seirgeant Grace, the Cooke in Saint Iohns streat, that killed his wife and infinit others.

I might héer set before your eyes what mischeifes haue follow∣lowed to masters by ouer hard vsages of their apprentices & ser∣uants a matter to be looked vnto for some are brought vp to idle to proudely, to wantouly with to much excesse bothe of meat and ap¦parell which brings them to lewdnes▪ to dycing▪ to ryoting, to whoredome to imbeasling of their masters goodes and suck like, others on the contrary part want both apparell and sustenance & besides and moste vnreasonable set to taskes to woorking vppon Sundayes and holy dayes forbidden, beaten and corrected out of measure and moste vnchristan like vsed, whereby they are for¦ced for want of further rememdie to runne away or to filth & steal to buye victualles orels to runne to a further mischeife amongst which I might remember the Powderers seruant that sometime dwelt in Finchlane. Also George Collins sometimes Appren∣tice with Richard Haiton taylor in Fanchurch who being badly vsed his master sought to kill him which he perfourmed being vn¦able to doe such a fact, and was for the same executed, but because the seand many others and yet fresher in memorie and writing then that they may yet be forgotten.

It shall be néedlesse to reporte vnto you the most hainous mur¦ther committed vppon the Chaundlar neere broken Wharff in London the matter beeing so fresh in memorie, the male actor still hanging as a notable example to our eyes, a greif to the godly a terrour to the wicked and repro¦bate: w•ich God graunt for our Lord Iesus sake.

AMEN

    FINIS.