An ACOUNT of the Apprehending & Taking, OF Mr. John Robinson, and William Criss, For the MURTHER OF Mrs. Mary Robinson.

Particularly, How they were discovered by a Letter, from an unknown Hand, and Seized in their Beds, this Morning at a Powder-shop, next Door to the Talbut-Inn, near the May-Pole in the Strand. With their Examination, and Committment to Newgate for the same. With the manner of the said Barbaronu Action, &c.
THE Barbarous and Inhuman Murther of Mrs. Mary Robinson in Shere-Lane by her pretended Brothers being noised abroad. A Letter Yesterday in the Evening came from an un-known Hand, to Mrs. Gilder's in Shere-Lane, signifying, that the same Persons who had Committed that Barbarous Action, were both at a Powder Shop next Door to the Talbut Inn over-against the May-pole in the Strand. And withall added that if they were not surprized that Night they would be gone next Morning, upon which Mrs. Gilder Communicated the matter to some Neighbours, who thereupon having Consulted with the Constable and watch near that place, it was agreed to defer Seizing them till near 3 of the Clock this Morning at which time, Entering the House they found them in seperate Beds with 2 Women which they called their Wives and having Examined them and the People of the House, it appear'd that, they had been Lodgers there ever since August Last, however, Mrs. Gilder being sent for, she positively declared that they were the same Persons that were last in the Company of Mrs. Robinson, that Night she was found Murthered, and that they went under the Notion of her Brothers; and they making but very frivilous Excuses the Constable and Watch secured them till near 10 of the Clock, and then they were brought before the Coroner, in Bell-Yard near Temple Bar, where they were Examin'd seperately insomuch that, they Confuted each other in their Answers; and thereby it plainly appeared that they were both Gilty of the aforesaid wretched Barbarity, tho' they seem'd for a considerable time to deny it, whereupon the Coroner (who the Day before had found it Wilful Murther) Committed them both to Newgate.

And accordingly they where Conveyed thither in a Coach, between Twelve and One of the Clock, where they are to remain till the next Sessions, which is now nearly approaching in order to be Tryed, for the Abovementioned Barbarous


Murther, where no doubt but they will receive a reward suitable to their deserved Crime.

We are just now inform'd by a Gentleman that knows both, William Criss, and Mr. Robinson, that Criss was the real Husband of the Murthered Gentlewoman, and that Robinson had Married Mr. Crisses Sister, so that they were Brothers in Law as was at first given out: The decesed Gentlewoman's former Husband being own Brother to this Mr. Robinson, and tis supposed that the only reason that induced, Mr. Criss to perform this Barbarous Action was, because he had lately Married another Woman.


The Account of the said Murther.
ABout a Week since, Mrs. Mary Robinson took a Lodging at one Mrs Gilders a Hatters Widdow near. Temple, Bar, at which time two Gentlemen whom she said was her Deceased Husbands Brothers accompanied her, and they have since made her several Vissits, she having one Girl with her not above 4 Years of Age: And on Wednesday last being the 29th of November, the said two Brothers came again about 8 of the Clock at Night, when asking to speak with Mrs. Robinson their Sister, Mrs. Gilder told them she was in her Chamber, and thereupon gave them a Candle and desired them to walk up two pair of Stairs to her, not in the least suspecting any harm to acted by her Brothers, so that having the Lighted Candle in their Hands they accordingly entered her Chamber where they found her in Bed, and having been there about half an Hour, Mrs Gilder heard a strange Blustling above, and at the same time, a kind of a Loud Screech or Cry, whereupon going up to see what was the matter, she was met by the two Brothers, who being asked by Mrs. Gilder what Noise was in Mrs. Robinsons Room.

Ʋpon which they haistly put the Candle into her Hand, and told her that the Child had been a little Ʋntoward, but now it was pacified again, and for that time she believed them, but seeing them make more hast than Ordinary out at the Door; she began to suspect they had Committed some Villany, so that she immeadiatly to satisfie her Doubts, knock'd at the Mrs. Robinson Door, but she not making answer, some of the Neighbours was call'd in, and in fine the door was brok open, for it being a spring Lock the Murther, had lock'd it after them, having got into the Chamber, they found Mrs. Robinson Murthered, in a most Wretched and Cruel manner, her Neck and Threat being as black as a Shoe, and and Sweld in the most terrible manner, so this tis thought they Strangled her with a Rope, or her Garters which lay by her, the Child saying by her at the same time having a pice of a Cake in its Hand, which tis supposed these barbarous Villans had given her to keep her from Crying; upon which the Child was asked who had done that to her Mother, she reply'd that her Ʋncles had done it, and had given her that Cake, to lye still without crying. What should induce these Bretheran in Evil to commit such a barbarous and abominable Action is at present ancertain; tho' most are of the Opinion, that they Murtiered her to prevent the Payment of Gold which they ow'd her, it being to be paid the next day, Mrs. Gilder having heard her say that she was to receive 60. l. of her Brothers the next day.

Licens'd according to Order.

London, Printed for and Sold by John Green, in Fleet-street, 1699

