AN EXACT RELATION OF THE Bloody and Barbarous Murder, committed by Miles Lewis, and his Wife, a Pin maker upon their Prentice, dwelling in Barnsby-street in Southwark.

WHEREIN IS DECLARED, The manner of his cruell Tortures, shewing how he were whipt with Rods of Wire and put to death with red-hot Irons; the like never heard of before in any Age.

ALSO, The Examination of this bloody woman before the Justice; with her Charge and Accusation, laid open against her.

Witnesse

John Newman, Jury-man of the Chaire.
Thomas Walles, All Jury-men.
Stephen Robinson All Jury-men.
Will. Robinson. All Jury-men.
Philip Henson. All Jury-men.
London, Printed for J. C. Novemb. 30. 1646.

AN EXACT RELATION OF The most bloudy and inhumane Murder committed by MILES LEWIS and his wife, living in Southwark, upon a poor Fatherlesse Boy of 12. years of Age; the like never heard of before.
THE great and manifold Massacres and inhumane Murders that are now dayly compoltted and enacted (by the Instruments of Sathan) in these our latter times, are almost innumerable, and may be a chiefe object to put into the

hearts of every true Christian a memoriall observation; yes may bee parallel'd with former ages: For who can deny, but that in all ages many bloudy Calmes, and most insolent and barbarous actions have been most inveterately enacted and executed upon many poore innocent Soules; yet, although we have thousands of Examples, and many fore-warnings dayly and hourly made manifest to us, wee cannot be withdrawn, nor with a bold resolution fixe our hearts and minds against these allurements of the Divell, but must yeeld and prosecute his ever-confounding designes and projects, as will be too clearly made manifest by these ensuing lines.
Therefore, for the generall satisfaction of all people, that desires to have this sad and lamentable story communicated to them, I shall begin with the miserable sufferings, and unheard of tortures, which were with such insolence and rigour executed upon a poor friendlesse boy (about twelve years of age) by his mercilesse Master and Mistresse, who lived in the Burrough of Southwark, in Barnsby-street, in the Parish of St. Mary Maudling; the particulars whereof followeth:

This Miles Lewis, a Pin-makere, living in Barnsby-street as aforesaid, a man of good reputation, and well beloved amongst his neighbours, having entertained and took to preutice a poor Fatherlesse Boy, who after a few weeks past, he began to feel much hardship & cruelty, being kept close to his work, & with most bitter and cruel usage tormented him, not only with his intollerable oppressions of bodily labour, but also for want of food and nourishment for his supportment; for hardly once in foure or five dayes had he half his belly full of bread, but beat him with cudgels, & broom sticks, sometimes pinching of him, and whipping him with rods of wire, till the verybloud ran down his heeles, hayling him up & down the house by the haire of his head: such miserable and inhumane actions were never heard of before, since the memory of man.

All this being so rigorously executed by the aforesaid Lewis and his wife, and having not fully brought to peerfection their most horrid and bloody conspiracy; they began againe to execute their malicious Designes; for his Master perceiving, that the Boy began to faile in his work; and not able to performe that which

his wicked and inveterate spirit did thirst after, prepared divers cords, and taking his opportunity, took him by the arme pits, and hanged him up a great distance from the ground, and then with grievous blowes tormented the boy; so that it was impossible for any poor Christian to endure the misery of such stripes. Whereupon the boy being notable to undergoe the misery any longer, and striving to get his armes out, his necke slided into the noose, where he hanged a long time, till at the last they could perceive him to draw no breath at all.
Then his Master cut the ropes, and let him down, uttering these speeches:

Sirrah, I will save you now from death (but with more additionall tortures) for the took four or five hot Irons, which he had laid in the fire, and laid them red-hot to his feet, scorching him so pittiously, that with the very extremity and cruelty of the heat, the boy cast up his eyes, uttering many a sad and wofull groan. Oh the cruelty and barbarousnesse of man! what Villaine or Infidell could do more?

But this were not all; for when the Master had prosecuted his barbarous designe upon the poor boy, the Mistresse she comes on with a second addition of tortures, taking many hot Irons, and burning his flesh in severall places; so that at the last, he gave up the ghost, having continued a long time under these heavie and oppressed tortures.

But, during the time of his great and miscrable afflictions, some of the neighbours hearing his dolefull and lamentable cry, came to his Master and Mistresse, desiring them to mittigate their wrath, and not to deal with

him so barbarously: But all would not serve; for while he had any life, hee were daily and hourly under their heavie oppressions, till at the last, it pleased the great God of heaven to ease him of his heavie burthens, and to take him to himself; and being dead, divers of the Neighbours came in, and having a great suspition of Lewis and his wife, by reason of their former cruelties, and hard usage towards him, they searched the boy, and finding his armes and sides most miserably beaten and bruised, and two mortall wounds in his head, and most lamentably mortified in all parts of his body; for where the flesh was burnt and scorched with the fire, it was most cruelly festered, and in such a manner, that it stroke terrour to the hearts of all the Spectators.
Whereupon the Neighbours for feare of being guilty of the least crime, in concealing this suspected murder, went to the Justice, and acquainted him with what had happened.

Whereupon the Justice immediatly sent for this Lewis and his wife, and also a little Girle that were their prentice, but the man had made an escape, and were gone, which made their cause so much the worse, and to bee the more suspected. But at the last, the woman and the girle appeared before the Justice, where the girle was examined, and being loath to speake, the Justice began to threaten her; she replyed again, that shee would willingly declare what she knew, but she durst not, by reason her Dame was there.

But being again urged by the Justice, shee replyed, and made answer to this effect; That her Master and Mistresse had beaten him with cudgels, and broome-sticks, and burnt him with hot Irons, and hanged him

up with ropes and cords, and there whipped him; and that her Mistresse kept many rods of wite to whip them, till the blood gushed forth, and dissued down their heeles.
This being affirmed, and testified before the Justice, and the rest of the Jury, the woman was presently committed to prison, and the Girle acquitted, and set free: & no doubt but she will severely suffer fore his misdeed, and barbarous Crime, which she hath so notoriously executed upon this poor prentice.

VVitnesse
John Newman, Jury-man of the Jury.
Thomas Walles, All Jury-men.
Stephen Robinson All Jury-men.
Will. Robinson. All Jury-men.
Philip Henson. All Jury-men.
    FINIS.

