Bloody Newes from Dover.

BEING A True RELATION OF The great and bloudy Murder, committed by Mary Champion (an Anabaptist) who cut off her Childs head, being 7. weekes old, and held it to her husband to baptize. Also another great murder committed in the North, by a Scottish Commander, for which Fact he was executed.


Printed in the Yeare of Discovery, Feb. 13. 1647, 1646

BLOODY NEWES FROM KENT
AMongst the innumerous bloody acts, and desperate Designs which hath bin committed in this sinfull Land, the like hath seldome been seen or heard of, which this ensuing Relation hath here to unfold, being a most sad and much-lamented story, of the late bloody murder committed at DOVER,

within the County of Kent; which I shall briefly recite: But (by reason of diversity of Opinions, which are now held and maintained by too many sorts of people within this Kingdome) I shall desire to spend some few lines of former Examples, by instancing some inhumane acts, much reflecting upon this dolefull story, viz.
In the beginning of the Reign of our Royall Soveraign, King Charles, there happened neere P•ntefract is Yorkshire, a great and bloudy murder, upon a little Boy about foure yeares of age, committed by its own Parents.

For neer the aforesaid Town, there lived a man and his wife, who were of two severall Religion, and having a ltitle son of some yeares of maturity, the goodman (being a Protestant) desired to have him put to Schoole, and to be brought up in the Protestant Profossion: but his wife denved the same, saying, shee would havee hrm brought no in the Catholike Faith, or else he should be of no Religion at all, which (indeed) fell out so: For, this bloudy woman watching her opportunity, murdered the Boy; but was afterwards apprehended, and suffered death for her bloody Fact.

Divers other examples might be instanced, but I will no longer detract time, and therefore proceed to the ensuing story, which we are now to treat upon.



At the samous town of Dover, within the county of Kent, it so fell out, that one Iohn Champian, an honest Tradesmad, having mairyed a wife from Feversham, and living some certain years at Dover, his place of habitation, it pleased God to send them tissue, and being delivered of a Child, after some few dayes expired, her husband desired to have it Christened (according the antient Custome of the Kingdome) but she would by no meanes condiscend to it, which much perplexed her husband.

But sixe or seven weekes being past and gone, this wicked minded woman took her opportunity; and on a day when her husband was abroad, took a great knife and cut off the Childs head.

And when her husband came in, she called him into a little Parlour, where the poore Infant lay bleeding, uttering these words.

Behold husband, thy sweet Babe without a head. now go and baptize it, if you will, you must christen the head without a body: for here they lye separated.

At the night of which, her husband were astonished, saying.

O thou bloody and inhumane wretch, what haste thou done.

Whereupon, some of the Neighbors hearing him immediatly came in, and seeing this foul misdeed, sent for the Offieers of the Towne, where shee was apprehended, and forth with sent to prison, there to remaine untill the next Assize, where by justice she must bee tryed according to the Lawes of this Realm. Many wofull expressions are heard to proceed from her, being

very penitent for her unhappy Crime, her Conscience being much troubled, and her eyes sad and distracted, by beholding such strange Visions.
For, shee can no wayes fixe her eyes upon any thing, but presently (she conceives) the poore Bubo to appear before her without a head.

Thus may we see, that where division and cootrover sie doth arise, sad effects will suddenly follow: for no sooner can there a breach appea; but presently Sathan is ready to stop it up, by infusing his deluding spirit into their hearts, for the increasing of variance, discord, and contention, and when once it hath taken possession, it is a hard matter to remove it, but stall lyeth open to the deluding snate of the Divel, being ready to Be entrapped upon any occasion.

And it is apparent, that when once the foot is in, the whole body will endeavor to creep in after; and where the least clause of reproach, there will immediatly arise a strong argument, for the finall confuting of it; even so is it now, there being one breach laid open to the publique view; a great Crime I confesse)

yet not so great as to have a generass Gensure, for one particular person; for, the best may do amisse, and the greatest Professor (sometimes) that liveth, may commit high mildemeanours, contrary to his Profession; for, is it not apparent, & probable, that there is knaves of all trades.

Another Relation of the late Murder committed in the North, upon the Scots advance from Newcastle.
UPon the Scots advance from Neweastle towards their own Countrey, one of the Scots Officers killed a woman, for which he were apprehended, and at a Councell of Warre condemned to dye. For, so full of Power and Justice, are the Scottish Commanders, that they do not only carry the Sword in one hand, but Justice likewise in the other.


These, and such like Hereticall Actions might be a great menes to move the honourable houses of Parliament, to proceed on in a Parliamentary way, for the putting down of all Sectaries whatsoever; and thersore thought fit to insist upon this ensuing Order, viz. Ordered, that the Ordinance for observing the Tenth Day of March next, a Day of Humiliation against spreading of Heresies and Schismes, was ordered to be carryed downe into the respective Counties of this Kingdome by the Sheriffes, and that it be published by the Ministers of every Parish, within the respective Counties of this Kingdome, and Dominion of VVales in their Church or Chappels.

It was ordered that M. Hodges be defired to preach before the Commons the next Fast Day, in stead of Mr. Calamy who desired to be excused.

    FINIS.