Advertisements.
THE Author hath received two other Answers, but thinks them not worth Answering; and being resolved to expose that Irrational Doctrine, and the weakness of the pretended Justifiers thereof, (but that the World may say that they have a fair Adversary to deal with, who is not willing to expose their Persons, but only their Folly, least some Persons might know their hands) doth promise to leave the true and exact Copies of those Letters at Mr. Harrison's the Bookseller in Cornhil, where any Gentleman that desires it, may see them.

The Anatomy of an Arbitrary Prince, or King James the Second set forth in his proper Colours, and what England may Expect from such an one: Wherein is set forth his Unlawful Actions when King of England, and his first Speech which he made to the Council Feb. 6. 1684. and the Heads of several other Speeches, with many of his Actions in Ireland since his Arrival there. Written for the Information and Satisfaction of all the Grumbletonians in their Majesties Dominions, but especially of the poorer sort. Price 1 d. They are to be Sold at Mr. Harrison's.

Bloody News from Devonshire: Being a True though Lamentable Relation of Four Barbarous and Horrid Murders, committed by an Inhuman Father upon the Bodies of his Son and Three Daughters, at a Village near Combe in the County of Devon, on the 30th. of March, 1694. by beating out their Brains with a Mattock, whilst they were on their knees beging for their Lives; And how afterward thro' Remorse and Reluctancy of Mind, he attempted to Hang himself, but was prevented by the timely coming in of some Neighbours: Also the deplorable Condition his Wife is in, whom he pursued with an intent to Murder. Together with his Confession before a Justice of Peace, and Commitment to Exon Jayl, as it was Communicated by a Letter from an Eminent Dealer in Combe, to a Worthy Citizen in London.
A Person, whose Name (for his Relations sake, which are very Considerable) we omit, as not thinking it convenient to add sorrow to affliction, living in a Village near Comb in the County of Devon, having a considerable time since Marryed a handsome young Woman, with a considerable Fortune; they in the beginning of their Marriage state lived together both very happy and comfortably, and had divers hopeful Children, which were brought up with Care and good Education, their Parents providing very plentifully for them, and by the Blessing of God, upon their endeavours, the Substance still encreased; insomuch, that they had what they could desire to render a happy satisfaction in temporal things; but in the height

of these Enjoyments and Possession, the Devil put in to overturn their peace and quiet, and so far exerted his powerful Temptations, that he utterly unhinged their felicity, in stirring up Jealousies and Mistrusts between the Man and his Wife, so that heart-burnings and Animosities brought in quarrels and strife, &c.

Upon Notice of this sudden Alteration in a Family which had so long lived peaceably, some honest Neighbours undertoook the good Office of reconciling them to their former good understanding, but it continued not long, e're the Fire that seemed to glimmer in the Embers, broke out again into a violent Flame, whether caused by the unhappy Husband's being jealous of his handsome Wife, (perhaps without a cause) unexpected Loss, or disappointments in business, since it yet remains in the dark, we determine not, but certain it is, Coming home on Fryday the 30th. of March last, sooner than his Wife expected, she upon viewing his Countenance fiery, stern and furious more than usual, dreading the fatal Consequence, started up and fled out of his reach, being too nimble for him, though he was not slow in pursuing her a considerable way, but she getting shelter in a Neighbours house, he declined his pursuit and went home, raging and storming in an extraordinary discomposed manner.

This disorder made some of the Neigbours follow him at a distance, in hopes to pacifie him when the heat of his fury was a little abated, as they having been formerly acquainted with his temper. But now the Power of Darkness was stronger with him than ever, for in his return, meeting his only Son (a Lad about 12. years of Age) who came out of the House, with uplifted hands and tears, to intreat him to be pacified, and not to kill or beat his Mother; he putting off all bowels of Pity and Compassion, snatched up a Mattock, an Instrument used in felling Trees, and Barbarously at one Forcible Blow Clove his Head in sunder, whilest the Lad (perceiving his revengeful intent) kneeled before his Inhuman Father to beg his pity, Intreating him to spare his Life.

This appeased not his Diabolick Fury, but smeered with the Blood and Brains which dashed in his Face upon the stroak to upbraid his Impiety, he went into his house with the bloody Instrument in his hand, & there finding his three Daughters (the Eldest not exceeding 9. years) crying at the danger they supposed their Mother in, he made furiously towards them, which caused them to fly into an inner room, but without any remorse pursuing them, he, whilest they were on their knees, with uplifted hands, Crying Father, Father, pray don't kill us, and we will be good Children, beat out (which I tremble to relate) their brains, with the bloody Instrument he had killed their Brother with, a little before,

Immediately upon this, the Divine Power struck him with remorse, as he hath since Confessed, so that he stood fixed, confounded, and amazed, viewing the bloody ruines his fury and dispair had prompted him to make on the Bodies of the Children of his bowels; which forced a flood of tears from his Eyes; whereupon he fell to taring his hair, and his cloaths, Cursing the day he was born, as in a kind of a distraction and dispaire, and the temptation urging him, espying a Rope, he snatcht it up, and sought for a place to fix it to and hang himself; but in the mean time, the Neighbours who had seen at a distance the first tragical act, came rustling in and prevented it. His Wife likewise dreading the Fatal Consequence, came hastily after them, and seeing her Children weltring in their blood, and shreiking out in a Lamentable manner, She sunk down on their dying Bodies in a deadly Swoon, but with much chafing was recovered, but at the coming away of this Relation, she remained speechless, distracted, and in little likelyhood of living long.

The Bloody Husband being carried before a Justice of Peace, in a Raving, and Distracted manner, Confessed the the several Murthers, and said, The Devil had tempted him to Murther his Fanily, and at that time he could not resist the temptation, but now was sorry for it with a bleeding heart and wished it undone.


Upon this Confession, and the Circumstances of the inhuman and Unnatural Murders, he was committed to Exeter Jayl in Order to his Tryal, where he remains in a very Disordered Condition, under great Horrors and Dissturbance of Mind, and as one in Despair.

This Account came in a Letter from an Eminent Person in Combe, to a Worthy Citizen in London, the Letter being now in the Hands of the Publisher of this Paper, from whom any person, inquisitive as to the Premises, may be fully satisfied of the Truth of this Lamentable and Deplorable Relation.

    FINIS.

LONDON, Printed and are to be Sold by Randal Taylor near Amen Corner, 1694.