Concealed Murther Reveild.

Being a Strange Discovery of a most Horrid and Barbarous Murther, That was Committed in St. Catherins-Lane near Tower-Hill, By Mary Anderson, alias Farrel, On the Body of Hannah Jones an Infant Of 8 Weeks Old, the Child of Mr. Jones, an Eminent Joyner at the Globe in Hounds-Ditch.

As also How it was Conceal'd 3 Years, and not Discovred till Monday last, at which time, she Confessed that she had Drowned the Infant in a Pail of Water: With her Examination before Justice Webber in Good-Mans-Fields, and her Committment to Newgate on Tuesday last, with other Remarkable Particulars.
MARY ANDERSON, Wife to Thomas Anderson Ship Carpenter who is at Portsmouth, having Lived some time with her Mother Mrs. Farrel in St. Catherins-lane near Tower-hill, who got her Livehood by nurss Keeping, the old Woman being a Widdow, Endeavoured to prefer her said Daughter to the same Bussiness of taking Children to Nurse, and the raither because she had a young Child of her own, so that being qualified for this undertaking her Mother made application to Mrs. Jones, an eminent Joyners Wife at the Globe and Cain-Chare in Hounds-dich, in order for the said Daughter to Nurss a young Female Child, which she had to put out; so having agreed to let her keep it at 4 s. per Week the Child was sent to her when it was about three Weeks old, where it continued: for about a Month, to the satisfaction of the Parents, who often went to see it; But before she had kept it full five Weeks, word was brought to Mrs. jones that her Child was Dead, and that it Dyed suddainly in a violent Fit; and tho Mrs. jones seem'd to doubt of some neglect that the said Nurss might be guilty of, by accidentaly Overlaying it, or the like: Yet in regard no appearance of Violence could be Discovered on its Tender Body, she at last concluded it Dyed a Natural (tho sundain) Death, and from that time (which was in October, 1696.) till the time of the Discovery of the Murther, no more questions were made Concerning it.

But alass Murther is too heavy a Sin to be conceal'd always, tho' the thoughts of such Loathsome Barbarity may be smothered for a time, yet the continual Stings of Conscience will be like so many Gastly Ghosts to stare the Murtherer in the Face, till it causes flames of Terror and Dispare to break out with uncontroulable Violence; for Blood will never cease Crying for Vengeance, till such horrid deeds of Darkness are brought to light.

But before I insist on the manner of this Strange Discovery I will instance the Circumstance of the Murther it self, which is as followeth, viz. having as you have heard, taken the said Child to Nurse (whose name was Hannah jones) and kept it near 5 Weeks, she the said Mary Anderson one Morning (as she herself declared) about 4 of the Clock Lighted a Candle, and taken the said Child out of its Bed by reason of its violent Crying, which she says it was very subject two, and having at the same time a Young one of


her own in the Bed with her, then a Sleep, she was so wickedly incensed against the poor Harmless and Innocent Infant, and for no other reason but thinking it would disturb her's; and the Devil having taken Possession of her Heart: She fills a Pail full of Water and taking the Crying Infant in its Swadling-Clouts, and in a wretched manner Plung'd it over Head and Ears into the Water, where with her Devilish and Unmerciful Hands, she held the Body under Water, till its Innocent Life was Expired.
Having perform'd this hateful and unparralelled Barbarity, she awakened her Sister (Elizabeth Farrel) who was in a Bed in the same Room by telling her what she had done, who being much amaz'd and affrighted leap'd out of Bed and took the Child out of the Water, and withall speed took it to the Fire in order (if possible) to bring it to Life, but all in vain, whereupon the old Mother was inform'd of this unhappy Action, who in order to save her Daughters Life advised them how to Conceal it which was by drying the Childs Body, and after to send Mrs. Jones word that it Dy'd in a Fll which was accordingly done as aforesaid, so that the said Barbarous Murther was kept Secret in the brest of the Mother and her two Daughters for nearly three Years successivily. But their Mother Dying last Week, it tis reported that her Ghost, (or rather her won Conscience) so Tormented her that she could not rest till she made a discovery thereof, and accordingly on Monday last she sent for one Mrs. Shephard and others of her next Neighbours, and Declared the sad Circumstances relating thereto as before, whereupon she and her Maiden Sister Elizabeth Farrel were Apprehended and Carried before the Worshipful Justice Webber in Goodmans Fields, where she confirm'd what she had before Declared to her Neighbours; after which the Justice demanded of her Sister why she conceal'd such a Cruel and Barbarous Action, to which she reply'd that her Mother and Sister did threaten her with Death if she did discover it and added that she was in great torter of Mine ever since the Murther was Committed, and that she knew nothing of it till the Infant was Dead, besides she was loath to take her Sisters Life awake thinking thereby that it would as much burthen her Conscience as Concealing the Murther; whereupon after the Justice had weighted and considered all circumstances he took Bail for her Appearance at the next Session but Committed Mary Anderson her Sister who Murthered the Child to Newgate, and accordingly she was carried thither in a Coach about one of the Clock on Tuesday last.

Since her Commitment we are Credibly inform'd that she has once or twice attempted to Drown her own Child after the same barbarous manner had she not been prevented by her Sister.

'Twas also observed that the aforesaid Mary Anderson was at some certaine times very Malencholy and Dejected, ever since she Committed this Fatal and Tragical Action and her Mother (when alive) being asked by the Neighbours what was the occasion thereof, she would usually fetch a great Sigh and tell them that she had done a very ill thing, but none did in the least immagine she was guilty of such a wretched Barbarity as is now made publick.

Licens'd according to Order.

London, Printed for William Aldredge in Southwark.