DEEDS AGAINST NATVRE, and Monsters by kinde: Tryed at the Goale deliuerie of Newgate, at the Sessions in the Old Bayly, the 18. and 19. of Iuly last, 1614. the one of a London Cripple named Iohn Arthur, that to hide his shame and lust, strangled his betrothed wife. The other of a lasciuious yong Damsell named Martha Scambler, which made away the fru•t of her own womb, that the world might not see the seed of her owne shame: Which two persons with diuers others were executed at Tyburne the 21. of Iuly following.

With two sorrowfull Ditties of these two aforesaid persons, made by themselues in Newgate, the night before their execution.

At London printed for Edward Wright. 1614.



Deeds against nature, and monsters by kinde: Tryed at the Goale deliuerie for Newgate, at the Sessions in the Old Bayly, the 18. and 19. of Iuly, last, 1614. the one of a London Cripple named Iohn Arthur, that to hide his shame and lust, strangled his betrothed wife. The other of a lasciuious young Damsell named Martha Scambler, which made away the fruit of her own womb, that the world might not see the seede of her owne shame: Which two persons with diuers others were executed at Tyburne the 21. of Iuly following.
IS it not a maruell, that fire fals not from heauen to consume an infinite number of worse then sauage natur'de people in this land, when vile wretches, whom God hath markt with his secret brand of secret purpose, so impiously attempt things against nature, as for example, (which God grant it may so prooue for our amendment) here remained amongst vs in this Cittie a deformed creature, an vnperfect wretch wanting the right shape and limbes of a man though in forme and visage like vnto one of vs, this decreped creature (as I said) named Iohn Arthur, liued and maintain'd himselfe with the charitie and deuotions of almes-giuing people, and by his lame and lin blesse vsage purchased more kinde fauours then many others of his base fraternitie: money and meanes being easily gained by a few beggerly obseruations, as a wretch gracelesse, and


vnthankefull for Gods blessings thus bestowed vpon him, made no good vse thereof, but spent the same in the seruice of the Diuell, as in blasphemie swearing, drunkennes, and such like, all damnable sinnes and such as be the nurses and breeders of others: this afore-named Cripple beeing on a time in the middle of his drunkennes heated with lust, fell into familiaritie with a certaine woman of his owne condition; who purposing to liue as hee did, vpon charitie, and good mens almes, and seeing good benefit to come by his lamenes, vnto whom many people grew willing to giue, promised to be his associate, and as his companion and wife to beg with him, many daies and monthes spent they together, continually abusing the gifts of charitie, and wasting away the same with drunkennes in the by-places and subburbs of the Citie, which is euermore the receit of such begging vacabonds and disordred liuers, instruments of the diuell prepared still for deeds of mischiese. This Cripple hauing not one good thought of God grace, so lusted after his begging companion, that he obtained the daily vse of her bodie, and continually committed so that sinne of lust & shame, making a practise thereof in the contempt of Gods Lawes, that the eye of heauen could no longer winke at them, but with a cleare sight see into their base wickednes: yea more then base in that a deformed lumpe of flesh and no perfect creature should thus abuse the seed of generation, and now and then in the fields and high-waies commit such beastly offences: but God we see hath iron hands, and will at last strike heauily, as hee did vpon these two shamelesse malefactors: For the Cripple in time surfetting vpon this his shame, and growing weary of this hated offence, as all people will doe, being not lawfully married, bgan to cast her off, and to loath her company though he himselfe might be thought the more loathsome, which she (abused women) perceiuing, and knowing her selfe to be but his strumpet, challenged of him the promise of marriage, and so importuned him thereunto by his former vowes and promises, and that heauen would otherwise cal his periured oathes to account,


all instigations of the diuell, and subtill policies to drawe them both to destruction, her importunate sutes to mariage so troubled his mind, bred such a rage in his heart, that a purpose came into his minde to rid her away by some vntimely death: a motion no sooner set on fire, but the diuell was readie to bring more fewell, and neuer rested till it was all on a flame: so vpon a night, a time fitting for such a dark deede, the Cripple enticed her forth into the fields neere Islington, where secretly at the Brick Kils, the lodging place for rogues and night walkers, he renewed his former familiaritie, and with a dissembling kindnes perswaded her to lodge there with him all night, which she, mistrustlesse woman, consented too, and little misdoubting his diuellish intent laid her downe vpon a pallat of straw by him to sleepe which as a token of hard misfortune sodainely possessed her: The Cripple perceiuing all secure and silent, and now thinking to be rid of the shame thus daily following him, tooke the womans owne girdle, and putting the same slyly about her necke, where though nature had denyed him strength and limbes, yet by the help of the diuell, which alwaies adds force to villany, he made meanes in her sleep to strangle her, and to take away her life, as it were sodainely without repentance: therefor all people by this example ought still to be prepared for death, for hee comes as a thiefe in the night, and giues no warning: who would haue thought such an out-cast of the world, such a lame deformed creature, not able of his owne strength to help himselfe, should haue power to take away anothers life, but the diuell wee see is a cunning, and will still make the simple his strongest assisters, and those that bee the most weakest, to be of the vilest thoughts, but to conclude, the Cripple, blinded thus with his owne shame, had that ignorant opinion of the discouerie hereof, that he thought the world too simple to looke into his life, and his decreped carriage would keep away all suspition, and that no man would thinke a lame creature could be able to doe so wicked a deede: but gracelesse varlet, as hee was, too much flattered in his own opinion, the Diuell as


he was first beginner of his sinne, so was hee last end of his shame, for the same morning the woman was found thus murthered, and beeing seene the night before in his companie with slender examinations confessed the fact, where for the same hee had his tryall at the Sessions by a Iury of twelue men and his execution at Tyburne in the sight of many hundreds of men, women and children, which accounts him to be a Monster by kinde and the dooer of a deed against nature.
Like vnto this viper of our age, wee are to place in our discourse another Caterpiller of nature, a creature more sauage then a shee woolfe, more vnnaturall then either bird or beast, for euery creature hath a tender feeling of loue to their young, except some few murtherous-minded strumpets, woemen I cannot call them, for a woman esteemes the fruit of her owne womb, the pretious and dearest Iewell of the world, and for the cherishing of the same will (as it were) spend her liues purest blood, where, contrariwise the harlot (delighting in shame and sinne) makes no conscience to be the butcher of her owne seed, nay the Image of God created in her owne body, and now and then in the conception makes spoyle of the bed of creation before it can receiue true forme., Therefore for an example likewise cast your eyes vpon this other monster of nature, which was a lasciuious, lewd and close strumpet, a harlot lodging priuately neere Bishops-gate in Bedlam at a kinsmans hause of hirs, which little suspected this hir vnwomanly carriage but shame long raked vp in the ashes of secresie, though close smoking, will at last breake forth into open flame: so this graceles wanton (spending her youth in lasciuious pleasures, as many a one doth in and about this Citty) hapded to proue w•th child, & hauing no husband to couer this her act of shame, and withall soaring the disgrace of the world, by a diuilish practise sought to consume it in her body before the birth, but not preuailing (as God would haue it) thee was forced by nature to deliuer it aliue to the world, and so was made the vnhappy mother of a man-child


vnhappy I may name her, for her owne hand made her vnhappy. To our purpose, her lusty body, strong nature, and feare of shame brought an easines to her deliuery, and required in her agony no help of a midwife which among women seemeth a thing very strange, for not so much as the least child in the house where she lodged had knowledge of her labour, nor hardly was she thought to be with child, so closely demeaned she her selfe, but the deuill we see addes force vnto wickednes, and puts a kind of strength to nature in that kind, otherwise had she beene discouered in the childbirth.
Consider this the Child being borne with shame and she by it made a scandall to her acquaintance, renewed the rememberance of her passed sinnes, and presented present shame vnto her grieued thoughts, which troubled cogitations, by the perswasions of the Diuill, put her in mind violently to make it away, and to giue it death before the body had well recouered life, whereupon taking the poore tender babe as it were new dropt from the mothers womb, and not like a mother, but a monster threw it downe into a lothsome priuy house, therein to giue it an vndecent graue and as shee thought therby make to her selfe a ridance of a further Infamy, but God is Iust and will reward shame where it is deserued, and such vnnaturall deedes, let them be acted in deserts, in the cauernes of the earth, where neuer light of day nor Sun shines, yet will they be discouered and brought to the worlds eye, so hapned it with this harlot, when all feare of suspition was past, shee safely deliuered, the Childe in the priuy smothered, and in the world no notice taken thereof, yet in the end was it thus most strangly discouered, the Tunnill of the aforesaid vault or priuy assended vp into the next neighbours house, as in many places they doe, where by chance (as God had ordayned) dwelled an vnto vard ladd that in taking delight in knauish pastimes tooke a cur Dog then vsing the house and carelesly threw it downe the Tunnell into the vault, where the murthered infant lay, and taking noe regard thereof, suffered


the Dog to remaine there staruing and crying for food the space of three dayes and nights, during which time the yelping of the dog much disquieted the neighbours, and so troubled the dwellers there abouts, that they could not sleepe a nights for the noyse, but especially the good man of the house, who greeued to see a dumbe beast so starued, and for want of food thus to perish like a kind natur'd man caused the priuy to be opened and the poore curre taken vp, which proued by Gods Iustice the only discouerer of the aforesaid fact for in taking vp the dog, they were wofull witnesses of the sweet Babe lying all besmeared with the filth of that loathsome place. The sight whereof caused no small amazement, especially to the good man of the house, who with a diligent care (as his duty was both to God and his country) and that all such inhumaine deeds might bee brought to light, made it knowns to the Magistrates, which likewise with Christian care caused a certaine number of substantiall woemen to make search of suspected persons, and of such who were like to be the murthered Infants mother, or murtherer, amongst many other loose liuers and common harlots, of which number those by places haue too many, the more is the pitty, this aforesaid murtheresse came to the touch, where vpon examination, she confessed the child to be borne with life, and her selfe not worthy of life, and so pleading guilty she was brought to her triall, & for the same araigned and condemned by the ••nch of assize in the old Baily the 18. and 19: of Iuly last 1614. and hath suffred death at Tyburne the 21. following as an example, that god, either by beasts of the field, soules of the ayre, fishes in the seas, wormes in the ground, or things bearing neither sence nor life will by one meanes or other make deedes of darknes cleare as day, that the world may behold his high working powers, and that no malefactor can escape vnpunished, though his deeds be as secret as the w••kes of hell, beyond the thought of humane imagination, conuert vs from sin great God of Israel, so shal we neuer be endangered with the like perswasions, which God in his mercy grant. Amen.

The Cripples complaint in the Dungeon at Newgate.
ME thinkes I heare a dolefull sound,
Within this dungeon vnder ground:
Prepare thy selfe (poore soule) to dye,
For so the Belmans voyce doth cry.
And Beggars all come ring my knell,
The Cripple now bids all farewell:
Both Crutches, Scrip, and patched gowne,
Wherewith I beg'd from towne to towne.
Though limbes I want and could not go,
Yot was my mind not pleased so:
But had my faults, as others haue,
Which brings me thus vnto my graue.
In vaine delights I spent my daies,
And wrong'd my fortunes many waies:
The almes that good men gaue me still,
I wasted to content my will.
For heauen had markt me out for shame,
Whereto I did my courses frame:
And as I was mishapt by kind,
Deformed also was my mind.
For by that sweete intising sinne,
My sodaine downefall did begin:
Wherein I set my harts delight,
On wanton women day and night.
At last when I loues pleasures prou'd,
I hated her whom late I lou'd:
And sodaine loathing, soone begun
Ashamed sore, of follies dun.
And still desired to end the life
Of her, I promist to make Wife:
For loue so gaind can neuer last,
No sooner done, but loue is past.
Then as my shame I hated her,
And would her death no time defer:
But arm'd with wroth in dead of night,
I traind her from all peoples sight.
That neuer more my follies great,
To my disgrace she should repeat:
Nor say vnto the world, that I
Had liu'd with her most wantonly.
For in the fieldes we two alone,
With weeping teares and bitter mone:
She crau'd amends for my amisse.
To make her Wife as reason is.
But I refus'd that honest course,
But did an act of sad remorse:
To end her shame with mine as then,
I did exceede the deedes of men.
The deuill my helper at that hower,
For he as then had strongest power:
Nor by his meanes I could not faint,
Though I was lame and limbes did want.
My heart with furious rage possest,
About her necke her girdle cast,
And forced so away her life,
Rather then make her married wife.
Neuer like deed by Cripple wrought,
For pleasures being too dearely bought,
Both old and young, both rich and poore,
Make neuer maid a common Whoore.
For doing so my life I loss,
With burthens of repentant woes,
For wanton loues are witched things,
And with them still much sorrow brings.
Adiew vaine world, the Cripple dies,
In this my life much wonder lies:
That borne a lame deformed wight,
Should thus take pride in loues delight.

Martha Scamblers Repentance.
POore I the poorest now on earth,
may well accuse my cause of birth:
Not being borne I nere had knowne,
This guilt that hath me ouerthrowne.
Wo worth the cause of sinne and shame,
Which staines my credit and good name:
Wo worth the traines which still are laid,
Whereby we woemen are betraid.
When I was won to follies will,
And tooke delight in doing ill
No thought I had of pleasures past:
But still my youth did vainely wast.
Till at the length my womb did bread,
A substance of vnlawfull seeds:
Which I supposd a shame to be
(God knowes) vnto my friends and me.
And to preuent the worlds disgrace,
I sought to finde a secret place,
My shamefull burthened wombe to ease,
That way which did my God displease.
O, when my houre of labour came,
To bring to light this fruit of shame,
No Midwiues help at all I sought,
But soone my owne deliuerie wrought.
The Babe being borne and in my armes,
I should haue kept it from all harmes,
But like a Beare or Woolfe in wood,
I wisht it smothered vp in blood.
Whereat strange motions without feare,
From hell to me presented were,
And bad me bury it in a Vault,
For none aliue did know my fault.

And so my credit and good name,
Should take no spot of black defame:
And I as pure and chast should be,
From such a crime as any she.
My shoule then blinded by the Diuell,
Bid me consent vnto this euill:
Where I full soone thereto agreed,
To act a more then womans deede.
The loathsome Iakes receau'd my child,
Which all misdoubts and feare exild
For being tumbled downe therein,
There well might end my shame and sinne.
But God, this deed more darke then night,
In wondrous sort did bring to light,
For by a Dog the Child was found,
As it was throwne therein to drown'd.
Three dayes and nights with yelping cry,
It troubled much the dwellers by,
Which caus'd them to release him thence,
And so found out this vile offence.
For which I surely now must tast,
Rewards for my offences past,
And dye for that accursed crime,
That makes me monster of my time.
Both maides and men, both yong and old,
Let not good liues with shame be sold,
But beare true vertues to your graue,
That honest burials you may haue.
    FINIS.