GODS Justice against Murther, OR The Bloudy Apprentice Executed.

Being an Exact and true Relation of a Bloudy Murther committed by one Thomas Savage an Apprentice to a Vintner at the ship Tavern in Ratliffe upon the Maid of the House his fellow Servant, being deluded thereunto by the instigations of a Whore. How and in what sort he performed the same, how he Robbed his Master, and was persued and taken by Hue and Cry at Coome Farm betwixt Greenwich and VVoolwick, Sent to Newgate, afterwards Arrained and Cast at Justice Hall in the Old Bayly, condemned to be hanged over against the place where be committed the fact, and b•ing once hanged and cut down afterwards reviving again, was the second tim• hanged till he was dead, on Wednesday October 28. 1668.

Exod. 21. v. 12.
He that smiteth a man so that he dye shall surely be put to death.

London, Printed for John Clarke at the Harp and Bible in West Smith-Field.


Gods Justice against Murther.
OF all crimes committed by Mortals here on earth, there is none which crys to heaven for louder vengeance then that sin of wilful Murther, when men play the Beasts and in humanly gore each other to death, making the world a shambles for humane slaughters, by desacing Gods Image in others, murdering their own souls, the Vshers to which sin is commonly covetousness, and whoredom, Covetousness, faith St. Paul, is the root of all evil, and a Whore saith Solomen, will hunt for the pretious life of a man, for those who prostitute their betes to all comers, will not fear to prostitute their souls to all vices, & thus covetousness provokes whoredom, & whoredom causes Murther to be committed, one sin deawing another as it were with Cart-Ropes, when the final conclusion is the destruction both of body purse and reputation, and (if God be not the more merciful) the eternal punishment of body and soul in hellfire.

Youthful extravagancies have commonly had consequences, and more perish by too much indulgence, then too much severity, men abusing their liberty, so that where discipline is neglected, all vices flow in wich a monstrous impetuosity.
That which we shall now relate is a sad example for the evidencing of these tenths, in the person of one Thomas Savage, a Vintners man, at the sign of the Ship at Rateliff-Cross, in the Parish of Stepacy, near London, who by the instigation of a Whore, blinded with lust, was wrought upon to Murther his fellow-servant, who indeavoured to hinder him in the Robbing of his Master, the story whereof followeth.

This Thomas Savage was born of honest Parentage, his Father dying when he was young his Mother married again, to one who proved a loving step-father to the Son as a careful Husband to the Mother, and both of them by their care and cost endeavouring to have their son well educated, which they expressed in bringing him up to Schooling whereby he might be fit and the more capable of a Trade; which afterwards (comming to more maturer years) they bestowed upon him, placing him with one Mr,

Collins a Vintner at the sign of the Ship, at Ratcliff Cross, where he continued with much love and good will of his Master and follow-servants for some space of time, though that was likewise attended with some youthful extravagancies, for which his Master would much blame him.
Thus you see here was an indeavor to have had the bids of vertue, and good living implanted in his heart, but where grace wanteth, all outward means will fail, Paul may plant and Apollos water, but it is God alone that can give the increase, young persons like this are flexible, and as war will receive any impression that is put upon them more easily inducible to that which it had then good, by reason of the depravedness of our nature. He hapned to light into some Whore-houses, the nurseries of wickedness, and seed plots of all filthiness, prophaneness, and debauchery whatsoever. Sin is chargable, and many persons ruine their estates out of the love they bear to filthy vices, they is forced to maintain lust, and so the whore hath it, she cares not by what means or from whom, by such means was this young man brought to ruine, for a whore seldom leaves a man till she hath

brought him either to the Hospital, or the Gallows.
It so hapned that one Sunday morning going with his Master to the Church he gave him the slip, and instead of the house of God, rambles to the sink of sin, the Bawdy-house, where he takes his pleasure, his whore is plyant to him, they drink and dally without controul, but this full of pleasure causes an ebb of Money, he complains to her of the emptyness of his pockets, this was to go to the Devil for counsel and who a better spokes-woman for him then a whore, she tells him he was a fool to have so little, and his Master so much, why should locks and bolts hinder him, a picklock or a Hammer would remedy that, he replys that he was never left at home alone, the Maid was with him, and therefore the b…ness was not sensible, she returns answer knock her on the Head, a sure way to find employment for the Hangman, as be afterwards too sadly felt to his cost.

Thus we plainly see that a whore is the high-way to the Devil, he that looks on her is entring on the Road, he that talks to her mends his pace, and he that injoys her is at his Iourneys end. O how many baits

and alurements have they to sin, using parting to set forth their Corpses of diseases, which having been long in the Chyrurgions hands, is ready to drop in pieces through rottenness, the love that they pretend to bear to men, is worse then the deadliest hatred of men, for where they kiss they kill, their breath is more venomous then a Dragons, their sight more deadly then a Basilisks, and their embraces more dangerous then those of a Serpents.
But to return where we left, time posting away, calls to the Prentice to hasten home, which he does, but findes his Master at dinner already, who questions him where he had been so long? the Devill is a ready prompter of lies, he returns him answer that he was at Church, his Master misdoubting the truth of his report, tells him that for his so late staying in the forenoon, he should keep at houre in the afternoon, this was as he would have it, the Maid and he are appointed to stay, the rest are gone to Church, Now he begins to put the Whores instructions in execution, Money he will have though he venture his neck for't.

And now his chief endeavour is to fall out with the Maid, to effect this he goes to


make clean his Masters dirty shooes on the new washed Dresser: this angers her much and some cross words passes betwixt them a Hammer lying by he catches it up strikes at her with it and knocks her down, the bloud gashing out of the wound aboundantly, she crying out be redoubles his blows so long untill he had killed her, and then laid a dish clout upon her wound which gushed forth in streams of purple gore.
Then with the same Hammer he brak open his Masters Cupboard, from whence he takes sixty two pounds, and with it returns to his Whore again: where having spent ten pence he informs her of what he had done. She knowing the danger he had brought himself into, like a right Whore indeed, forsakes him in his greatest extremity and re…es to give him entertainment. Now knows he not what to do, what course to take, like the first Murtherer Cain he must become a Runnagate upon the earth, fearful that any one which should finde him would apprehend him, he having the brand of a guilty Conscience sticking within him, London was to hot for him, he therefore crosses the water and goes towards Greenwich accompanted onely with


fear, horror, and guilt of Conscience.
In the mean time (Sermon being ended) his Master returns home, and finding the doors shut knocks and calls, but receives no answer, after much fruitless knocking, the door in forced open, where entering he findes his Maid murthered and himself Robbed; this strikes him into much grief and astonishment, but perceiving some Life in the Maid, they strive to recover her but in vain who onely living so long as to detect the the Murtherer, (God enabling her so much that such wickedness might be the better found out) she then yielded to Fate, and surrendred her innocent soul to death.

Hereupon immediately Hue and Cryes are sent out after the Murtherer, who comming to Greenwich, went to one Charltons a Watermans house to drink, laying the Mony down by him, where having not long been, but hearing some whisperings of a murther done at Stepney, and a Hue and Cry after the murtherer, guilt of Conscience and fear so posesses him, that leaving the Mony behind him, he quits the Chamber where he was, and betakes himself to his heels. Weary and dismaid with the guilt he carried about him, at Coom Farm betwixt Greenwich


and Woolwich he again betakes himself to an Ale-house, where sitting down and calling for a pot of Beer, he presently falls fast a sleep, where the Hue and Cry overtook him, from whence he was guarded towards London, and had in examination before Major Manley one of His Majesties Iustices of the Peace for the County of Middlesex, where he freely confessed the act in manner as is related before unto you, detecting the Whore that enticed him un to his destruction, who with her Spiders Web of wickedness had intangled him in her Nets, whereupon he was Committed to Newgate, and a Warrant being also issued out for her, she was taken, examined before a Iustice, and committed also unto Newgate.
Thus you see sin goes before, and shame follows after, the danger of keeping had Company, especially Whores, those instruments of the Devill, the bane of youth and Lyme-twigs of wickedness, the center of all mischiefes, and the Gulphs that devours the lives, estates, and reputations of all that use them.

At the Sessions house in the Old-Bayly October 24. 1668. he had his Tryall,


where confessing his fact sentence of death was passed upon him to be executed again at the place where he committed the fact. Hannah Blay also who had perswaded him to this execrable act, by bidding him to knock the Maid on the head, was also condemned to be executed at Tyburn, but pleading that she was with child she was for the present reprieved.
But Thomas Savage the principal in the murther, according to the sentence aforesaid was Wednesday, October the 28 conveyed to a Cart from Newgate to the place of Execution appointed for him, being over against his Masters house, at the sign of the Ship in Ratcliff-cross, where was assembled a great concourse of people to be spectators of his sad Catastrophe, he seemed to be very peninent, desiring all people, especially young persons to take warning by him, what company they addicted themselves unto, which was either the bane or making of youth, he gave them an Item as near as they could to get into such services where the word of God was constantly read and practised, to beware of whores and whore-houses, those seed plots of wickedness, being such labyrinths of ungodliness,


that nothing but the Clue of Gods grace can bring them forth again, when they are once entred into them. With many other words to the like purpose after which he was turned off the Ladder, where having hung some space of time he was cut down and carried to the sign of the Rose by Ratcliff, where his body was laid upon a Table, divers Seamen being in the Room, but long he had not lain when they might perceive some signs of life in him, whereupon having a fire kindled, warming their hands they bathed his body with spirits, and an Apothecary being in the room desired to have him in a warm bed, when presently he began to move his arms and legs, with several other symptoms of a living creature. In the mean space some Officers belonging to Newgate, going to view the dead corps, but finding it in such a living posture, one of them posts to the Sheriff, to acquaint him with it, whom he found at Dinner, who suddenly hasted thither, the Officer by the way meeting also accidentally with the Executtioner, took him along with him, whereby the way we may note, now every thing consentred together, for the speedier execution of Gods Iustice upon this sin of wilful

Murther, for seeing all things were thought to be done before, it was accidental for the Officer to meet with either of them both just so on a sudden,
When the Sheriffe came to the sign of the Rose aforesaid, he found Savage sitting in the bed, perfectly living, but wanting the use of speech, though he was judged not of sence or reason; wherein execution of his sentence of Condemnation he commanded him to be put in a Blanket and in a Cart, it being the space for four horses at the time of his first hanging, to his second going to Execution, he did strive and strugle some what both at his way and to the Cart, giving a kick to the executioner and one of the Baylives a kiss on the mouth, but soon he was had to the Gibbet aforesaid, and there hanged till he was quite dead.

And this was the end of Thomas Savage one who by the course of Nature might have lived many years had he not by his wicked courses caused the hand of Iustice to shorten his days. He was said to be very penitent in Prison, free in the confession of the horridness of his crime, earnestly imploring Gods mercy for the pardon of the
n
same, and no doubt but God who is the God of mercy had compassion on him, his end may be a warning to others for committing the like, least trying the same sins they taste of the same punishments that he did.
His Corps was afterward conveyed to Islington, the place where his sorrowful Mother dwelt, and that night there buried, notwithstanding the idle reports of some, who (forsooth) would have him to be alive still, such idle rumours when they are once got into the nodles of the more idler multitude, gain still by report, and like snowbals encrease with being roled from one to another.

Hannah Blay who had given him that wicked Counsell of knocking the Maid on the head, remains still a condemned prisoner in Newgate. She pleading that she was with child, which hath gained her a retrieve for a time.

And thus we may see the ill effects that sin produces, for as the Apostle saith, the reward of sin is death, which though it many times scapes the death of the body, yet ever falls to kill the soul their more nobler art, in comparison of which the body is but


a meer dunghil, yet if we look also upon the punishments that it brings on the body, we shall find enough there to work in us a detestation of it; how doth it impair our health consume our riches? destroy our credits? making us a scorn to our foes and a detestation to our friends, even wicked men hating those in whom they see their own vices predominant.
But for this bloody sin of Murther it is crime of a crimson dye, which nothing but the tears of true repentance, can wash of t guilt of it, from off the soul, yet man hath no greater enemy to himself then mankind birds, beasts and fowls, go lovingly togegether in Troops and Herds not hurting each other, oh let us then learn at least much civility from those which we could beasts, least by our bloody actions at the day of Iudgement we be found to be greater beasts our selves.

    FINIS.