Horrid News FROM St. MARTINS: OR, Unheard-of Murder and Poyson.

BEING A true Relation how a Girl not full Sixteen years of age, Murdered her own Mother at one time, and a Servant-maid at another with Ratsbane.

AS ALSO How she very lately gave Poyson to two Gentlewomen that since her Mothers Death kept and maintained her.

Upon which being aprehended, she has Confess'd the former Villanies; and was on Tuesday last being the 19th of this Instant June, committed to Prison, where she now remains.

With the substance of her Examination; the like unnatural Wickedness scarce ever read of before in any Age.

To which is added The taking of a man for a Murder committed at Islington two years ago, &c.

With Allowance.

LONDON: Printed for D. M. 1677.


POYSON and MURDER, &c.
A Preamble, though usually the Excrescencie of a Pamphlet, is to this Narrative essentially necessary, the matter being so very strange and impresidented as requires some preparatory Address to recommend it to the sober Readers belief; It scarce salling within the compass of Imagination, much less credible probability, that an ignorant Girl that has nothing to be read in her face but Characters of Innocence, should be so well skill'd and detestably practised in the mysteries of Poysoning; that a Childe should be so barbarously unnatural as to murder her own dear Mother, so wickedly cruel that nothing could satisfie her Revenge upon the least imaginary Affront, but the lives of all that displeased her: That she should begin this practice so early, continue almost two years in it undiscovered, &c. might render the Relation suspitious, were it not a thing acted so neer at hand, so lately prosecuted, so amply made out both by her own Confession and other circumstantial Examinations


and proofs taken before the Justices, and confirm'd by her present Imprisonment, where she continues to acknowledge the same.
This Girl who has not yet attained to Sixteen years of age, being left, or rather as now appears, having inhumanely made her self Motherless somewhat above a year and a half ago, and consequently seeming an Object of Pity and Charity, was accordingly on that account entertain'd by a good Lady, who being a Widow, another Gentlewoman of good worth in the same Condition dwelt with her, under whom this unhappy Wench might have lived very happily, they both carrying themselves very kinde and indulgent to her; but having before made her self guilty of two horrid Murders, no wonder if Divine Justice to bring her to deserved punishment, suffer'd her by attempting a third Villany to discover the two first.

For so it happen'd, that upon some petty Falling-out or Chiding from the two Gentlewomen for some Misdemeanour, or what other provocation, is not yet certainly known, she became so wicked as to mix Poyson with some of their Provision, as she prepared the same for them: Of which they had no sooner eaten, but they both grew desperately sick, so that it was concluded they would immediately have died. Some skilful persons being call'd, concluded by the symptoms that they were poysoned, and accordingly administred Alexipharmacks (or Medicines


resisting and expelling Poyson) which with speedy Vomits had such good success, as 'tis hoped both their lives are safe, though one of them remains still in a very bad Condition.
It was observable that a Cat happening to lick up part of what one of the Ladies had cast, fell into a strange fit of trembling and swelling, and in a very short time died.

The Extremity of the danger being past, strict inquiry is made into the Author, who 'twas found could be no other than this Girl, having pass'd through nobodies hands but hers. Hereupon she is strictly questioned, and at first denied it, though the changeable Colours in her face, and trembling disorder gave her tongue the lye, and proclaim'd her guilty. At last after much importunity and some suggestions of Pardon, she declared, That she did do it, and had given them Poyson once before, but in so small a quantity, that it onely made them sick for a short time, without further mischief. She alleadged, tha• she was instigated thereunto by a certain Woman, who is not yet found out, but on what occasion is not known.

Being further examined how she came by the Poyson, and whether she knew the destructive effects of it, She declared, That it wa• Ratsbane which she had had a great while, and knew what it would do well enough: For she had tried it


twice before. This last Expression caused them to question her more strictly how she meant; she told them, That before ever she came to her Mistriss she gave some of it to a Maid that was sick of the Small-pox, and afterwards gave some of the same to her own Mother; and they both died upon it.
This Discovery, especially concerning her Mother, fill'd all the Company with amazement and horrour, and made them inquire why she could endure to murther her Mother; to which the substance of her Reply was, That she was very sickly and troublesome, and she did it to be rid of her: and some such sorry reason she gave for poysoning the Maid.

Hereupon she was taken into Custody by a Constable, and again examin'd before two Justices of the Peace; where her Answers in effect were the same. Inquiry having been made into the manner of her Murthers and that Maids death, the Circumstances confirm what she confess'd, onely were not taken notice of then, because there was not the least suspition of any such Attempt.

She is at present committed to Prison, confessing

still her Crime, but begging of those that come to visit her, That they would mediate for her to her Lady, to use her interest to get her a Pardon: But these 'tis conceived are vain Childish hopes; and it will be better for her to repent, and prepare for her later End: That although she suffer justly in this World, she may through infinite Mercie obtain forgiveness in that which is to Come.
To this lamentable Narrative we cannot but adde another of the same Sanguine Complexion; and that is, Of the Apprehension of one of the Fellows that about two years ago was suspected for having a hand in Murthering a poor innocent Ditcher neer Islington: For which the other being taken about a Twelvemonth ago, Tryed, and Convicted, was Hang'd, though he cast the very Act of Killing the man on this; who having lurk'd up and down in secret places, maintain'd by his Wife or Woman he used to keep Company; but happening lately to fall out with her, she

for some Misdemeanour, procured him to be put into a house of Correction; where a person coming accidentally out of Curiosity to view the House, knew and discovered him: Ʋpon which he was removed in order to his Tryal next Sessions.
    FINIS.