Murther, Murther.
Or, 
A b'oody Relation how Anne Hamton,
dwelling in Westminster night London, by
poyson muthered her deare husband Sept.
1641. Being afflicted and counselled 
thereunto by Margeret Harwood.

For which they were both committed
to Gaole, and at this time wait
for a tryall.

Women love your owne husbands as Christ doth the Church.
Printed at London for Tho. Bates, 1641.

A bloody Relation of Anne
Hamton, who poysoned her husband at Westminster.

Gentle Reader,
It is not my purpose to make thee now laugh, but is possible it be to be sad, not to reoyce but lament, not to be frolicke, but to dissolve into foundaines of teares, because a daugther of Jerusalem hath committed an abomination. Harken to me you that be wives, and give attendance you which as yet are unmarried, regard the words of Saint Paul, which commands that every wife should love her own husband as Christ the church, not to be highminded towards him, but humble, not to be self-willed, but diligent, not to be like a strange woman, which wandereth abroad in the twilight to get a prey, but to be constant and loving to him, for why ye be both of one flesh.

A man must forsake his father, Mother, brethren, and sisters, to cleave to his owne wife, and to likewise the wife for the husband. But I must tell of one who would never agree to any such pious matter.

Before I come to which relation I cannot abstaine my selfe from exclamation, let all the forerests wherein fierce lions are contained by joined in one, and privy search made, to know if every female did the male destroy; Oh no! for though by nature they be fierce and bloody, yet doth nature so much governe them, that those which are couples, bee linkt in frienship, never disagree. Oh then thou savage woman, why unto blood wert thou addicted as to destroy thy loving and kind husband? The relation of which, shall be divulged throughout this universe.

In the parish of Saint Margarets Westminster, dwelleth one Anne Hamton, in the house of Margeret Harwoods, this Anne Hamton had a husband which like a loving man indeed delighted in nothing more but to see his wife pleasant: for he would often say my wife being troubled it behoveth me not to be at rest she being pleasant I ought to be joyful; but the most unkind woman, was of a contrary disposition; for she at her own house, would take an occasion to be merry, when the greatest mischiefe had befallen him. Hee was a very laborious man, but she, a light huswife, when she was working shee would be gossiping, with one young fellow or other, or else with such women as were like to her selfe: never was she more joyfull than when she was out of her good husbands company: what her husband got by taking paines, she spent by taking her pleasure: by mony being thus consumed, and his goods wasted, he upon a time spoke to her after this manner.

Wife, what doe you meane to doe? How dost thou intend to live? My money you spend, which I get hardly, my goods you wate, you never got the worth of a joynstoole, my company you hate, you must have better. O wife, wife, take counsell by me thy hitherto loving husband, forsake that company which hate not thy body, but soule, do not drink healths to thine own confusion, nor with to greedy an appetite swallow thine own destruction; repent in time of thy wickednesse left when thou thinkest thy selfe in security, the Lord cut thee off, and what will then become of my poore soule; love me thy husband, hate those which intice thee to sickednesse, trust not to their failing countenances, for in their hearts doe lye hid nothing but abominations. If thou wilt (I say) have my love, hate such, or else never more think to enjoy, that which as yet you have alwaies had. 

What harme was there in all this which he spake unto her? But notwithstanding she forsooth took it in distaste, and giving him a scolding reply, shee left the roome, and went to her compansion in mischiefe, Margerite Harwood, which was her landlady, to whom she revealed the secrets of her heart, saying, that her husband was an enemy to good fellowship, and continually wrangled and bralwed at her, because she affected it. In which she lyed, for hee alwayes spoke in a very loving manner unto her, except she overmuch provoked him.

Moreover she said that she should never bee in quiet until by some way or other she were shifted of him.

The devill finding an occasion how to accomplish a mischevious intent, always makes use of it, hee knows how to please every ones wicked humour. Wherefore he tempted the Landlady with bloody cogitations, for shee hearing her Ningles unjust complaint, she cryed out that it was her own fault, for letting such an abject villaine to live; hang him, cut his throat, or poyson him, for he is not fit to live upon the erath amongst good fellows. To condiscend to whole counsell, she seemed every unwilling, but at length the devil got the better of her, and then she did agree to pyson him. And for the same intent she went and got five drams of poisons, and neough to have destroyed ten men, and mixt it amongst his food, which he no sooner had taken, but that he presently did swell very mucht, which she perceiving, did runne to her Landlady. When askt her how much she had given him, she replied, five drams; well done, said she, if five will not bee enough, ten shall, and thereupon they went up to see him, but he was then burst. Then did they both dessemble a lamentable cry, which casued the neighours to come in to see what was the matter, where they did behold such a wofull spectacle as sufficient to exahust teares from the dryest eye composed of Punice stone; for there did they see his nayles quite pilled off, his hands did seeme only like two great boyles, his belly seemed as if hot irons had been thrust into it, his visage was so much defaced by the quicke operation of the scalding poyson, that had they not well knowne the body, they would have sworne it not to have beene the man which they came to visit: they all easily perceived that he was poysoned.

A Chyrugion being sent for, ripped up his body, and found the pyson lying round about his heart. As also there was found pyson in a paper in the window; The Chyrurgion calling for a Venice glass but the same therein, which immediately broke the glasse.

Wherefore they sent for an officer, and apprehended upon suspition both his wife and Landlady, whose consciences cannot but confesse that they washed both their hands in his innocent blood. 

They both are in Gatehouse Prison of Westminster, night London, expecting a day of tryall, which time will not be long; till when I rest: then (gentle Reader) that those have by Gods permittance a more perfect relation.

Finis.