Murther upon murther: or a true and faithful relation of six horrid and Bloody Cruelties, and barbarous and unheard of Murthers and Tragical Villanies, lately committed in Several Counties of England. 
1.	A Farmer, his Wife, and Child, Barbarously Murthered in Cabridge-shire, by a bloody serving man.
2.	A Hofmans Wife and Daugther, was Cruelly murthered by a Fisherman, in the County of Kent.
3.	An Aged Widdow, in the County of Middlesex, was murthered by her Bloodthirsty Lodgers.
4.	A woman going to market was cruelly murthered, the murtherers being apprehended drinking at her own house.
5.	A woman barbarously murthered her own husband in the County of Surry.
6.	An Honest wealthy Yeoman in York-shire, was murthered by a VVoman thief, that came with six men of the same profession, to rob the said yeomans House.
Draw bu the Curtain, view the Tragick Screen,
Read, but so Read, so keep thy conscience Clean,
See with Abhorrence, what the Vile have done,
Fly the fowl Act, that thou its Fate may Sun.
London, Printed by W.D. for J. Conyers at the Black-Raven in Duck-Lane, 1684.
Murther upon Murther: Or, A True and Faithful Relation, of Six Horrid and Bloody Cruelties, &c.
The second offence committed in the world by disobedient Man, was that barbarous and unnatural sin of murther; when wicked Cain, incensed with Mallice, stained his hands in the Bood of his righteous brother, and from this odious original, Mankind has since with accursed industry drawn too many sanguine copies.
But not to detaine you over long upon a preamble, I shall present you with an account of several as horrid and bloody tragedies as ever the antient or this modern age was witness of.
1.	A horrid murther in Cambridge-shire.
Not far from a small town in Cambridge-shire, called Cackston, there lived an honest farmer at a solitary house, known by the name of Monk-field-house, which proved the theatre wherein a bloody tragedy was acted.
This farmers urgent occasions obliged him to imploy a workman more then ordinary, and was necessitated to entertain a strange.
Which blood-thirsty villain understanding his master had a considerable sum of mony by him pay to his Landlord, was prompted by his own necessity to covet the same, yet demeaning himself very civelly for about fifteen days which he had lived there; untill one Sabbath-day in the evening, when his master and he were discoursing together in the barn, he took hold of the opportunity, knocking his master down with a pitchfork, and sticking the fork into his belly several times, soon dispatched him.
And to make way for another tragedy, the good woman who was putting her child (of about five weeks old) to bed, hearing the dismal cries and groans of her dying husband, lays down the child, and runs toward the barn; to know the occasion of those out-cries, where she beheld her husband wallowing in his blood, and meeting at the same time with her own death, by the merciless hand of the same bloody villain; and having thus assassinated his master and dame, resolves to compleat his villainies in the murther of the poor infant, and going presently into the house, he strangled the babe as it lay in the cradle, and that he might leave no living creature to keep possession of the house, he killed the dogg also and then brekaing opne the boxes and trunks and taking the monys and what goods was most convenient for carriage, and a horse out of the stable, made his escape the same night.
The murther was not discovered till Tuesday in the afternoon following, when a Boy coming accidentally to the house and knocking at the door, could make no body hear, but going to the barn, espies bloody lying in several places, and soon discovered the murthered bodies of the man and his wife.
And in great surprise, running to the town, he discovers this fatal accident to the inhabitants, who sending for a choroner, they hasted to the house, to view this dismall object, not omitting all possible dilligence to discover and apprehend the bloody author of this dismall tragedy.
2.	Of a horrid murther in Kent
Joseph Plumpey, a fisher-man, inhabiting at the Upper-Ground on the Bank-Side of Southward, a person inclining to an extravagant and vicious life, who was notwithstanding married to an honest wife, and by her means accomodated with two boats furnished with all things suitable to his trade: which, by reason of his profuseness, was soon sold to maintain his lavishing expence, and his necessity driving him to abscond from London, and seek his livelihood in an obscure place in Kent called Cunyard Creek where he remained six months, in which time he came acquainted with the inhabitants of the place. 
And one day being drinking there at the certain Victualing-House, a hogg-mans wife (big with Child) of his acquaintance, coming in to borrow some live coales to kindle her fire, he would detaine her to drink with her ere she went home, which was soon after.
And Plumpey knowing her husband was sailed to London, and none but she and her young daughter at home, within a quarter of an hour followed her, and coming into the room where she was suddenly strangled her, to prevent her crying out, and then with a stroke on her head with a great faggot-stick, broke her skull, striking other blows on her right shoulder, which was found extreamly bruised, and as if he feared a discovery by the unborn infant, he stab’d her in the belly with a pair of compasses.
Then entering the next room where her daugther was being innocent of her mothers tragical end, he murthered her in a deplorable manner, then ransacking and robbing the house made his escape at the back-door. And meeting with a young man, who was formerly his servant (as was his usual custome) he pleaded poverty; the young man invited him to the aforesaid ale-house, to give him his morning draught in ale, and also lent him five schillings in mony, then Plumpey intreats his company to a village called Plough, two miles distant, where at the George they went in to drink, where we will leave them for a while, and return to Cunyard.
Several persons came to speak with the woman that day but the neighbours supposing she and her daughter had been gone abroad, did answer them accordingly, at length came a woman, whom she had appointed to come that day at that hour, and would not be dismist, as the others, being confident she would not go out to disappoint her, whereupon one of the neighbors going to the back-door and thrusting with his foot, it flew open and within the threshold, was a bundle of the womans and her husbands cloaths, reading bound up to be carried away, and a little farther, they beheld with amazement, the good woman and her daughter, weltering in their own blood, and instantly giving notice of the same, to the next justice of the peace, warraints were forthwith exhibited, for the apprehending the Murtherer, and speed search to be made, in all the adjacent towns and villages. 
The peace officer of Plough, accompanied with the Father of the deceased, searching amongst other the George Ale-House, where we left Plumpey drinking with his old servant, the officer asking the old man, if he thought those two persons might not be concerned; I think not, said the old man, for Plumpey has been often at my daughters, and has been very welcome, and the other is well known to be an honest and able man, but the youngman hearing murther and robbery mentioned, desired they might be both searched, which was accordingly done, and out of the first shoo they plucked off from Plumpy’s foot, there a drop about thirty shillings in mony, and night as much out of the other, part of which mony was remarkable, as fair twopences, medals, &c. known to belong to the murthered woman, and in his breeches, they found a whistle, a stone-ring, and some pieces of gold and silver, with some things marked with the name of the deceased, upon which discovery he was apprehended, and committed.
3.	Of a horrid murther in Middlesex
The Widow Jewers, aged near eighty years, being owner of the small House in Angel-Alley in Bishopsgate-Street, with convenient furniture, and some place, part of which house in the Let to one that sold a cup of ale, the rest reserved in her own hands, she was willing to improve and therefore sometimes entertained lodgers.
A man and a woman pretended to be man and wife (but altogether strangers to the neighbours) hired of her a lodging, or a room furnished.
There one night, in show of kindness, invited their landlady up into their room to eat part of a piece of pork, who not suspecting their intended villainy, went up who was no sooner entered the room, but without companion of her age and innocence, they fell upon her, stopping her mouth with a durty towel, then twisting a napkin about her neck, strangled her, and taking her keys, rifled her chamber, taking from thence her mony, plate, and what was post portable, and carried it away.
When the man went out, was uncertaine, but the woman coming down to that part of the house, where the drink was sold, for three pints of ale, as for their supper; saying, she would step out while it was drawing for some cheese: this was about nien of the lcokc at night, but she not returning till it was time to shut up the doors, and the tenant wondering at her landladies staying to long, called at the stairs foot but receiving no answer, she with a neighbour went up, where they found the good old woman murthered the napkin remaining stiff about her neck, also there was the table spread, and salt upon it, but the cruel regisides were fled: but divine vengeance which never sleeps will doubtless in time overtake such villaines with swift destruction.
4.	Of a horrid murther in Essex
A gentleman and his man traveling a private road in the County of Essex (in the middle of the day) on a suddain their horses started and snorted, and wound not with whip and spurr be compelled to go forward, the gentleman concluding it was for something more then ordinary, and looking curiously about, espies several drop so flbood upon the ground, and alighting follows the bloody track a pretty way, till he came ot a thicket of bushes, in which he finds to his great amazement, the dead body of a woman reaking with its wounds, an mangled in a most cruel and barbarous manner.
The gentleman was not a little surprized and amazed at so unexpected a fight, and riding back to a little ale-house, being the next house, and knocking very loud at the door, and with a terrible voice calls out, who is within, and being heard by a man and woman in the house, they removed into an inner room, and desired their host to deny them, the innocent man was knowing the reason, but willing to oblige them, did accordingly answer he had no body in the house but himself and three children , but the gentleman would not be so satisfied but comes in, and demands to look into the other rooms, tells him, there was a murther committed hard by, and he was resolved he would search the house for suspicious persons. 
The world of murther so terrified the poor man, that he presently opened the door; then the gentleman asked if he knew of any body that had lately gone that way, and the host answered that he knew of none but his own wife, who was gone to market to buy some necessaries against her lying-inn, for she was great with child; the gentleman demanded if he knew what money she had about her, the host answered three shillings and eight pence, which was all in groats, whereupon the gentleman caused the strange man to be searched and found just the same sum and pieces; the gentleman telling the host he believed those people had murthered his wife, for in such a place lay the dead body of a woman. 
The poor man running to see the body, found it to be his wife indeed and the gentleman upon the mans return getting more assistance carried them before a magistrate, and though they confidently denyed the fact, the several circumstances of having just that sum, and all in groats, was so considerable, that the justice thought fit to commit them. 
5.	Of a horrible murder in Surry.
Near St. Margaret-Hill in Southward, lived on Thomas Eleston, a felt-maker, with his wife Sarah, this couple lived about six years very lovingly and comfortably together, until the woman declining her former diligence, and falling into acquaintance of lewd company, became a common drunkard and a desperate swearer, her husband using all fair means to reclaim her from those evil courses, but in vain, they trying other ways, as keeping her short of mony, then she run him in debt, by taking upon money at a Tally-shops, and selling his goods by degrees, till they had scarce a chair to fit on, or a bed to lye on; this so perplexed the poor man, that he resolved to beat her out of those wicked courses, and did sometimes chastise her with strokes, but all this produced no amendment.
For she having one day been out with her gossips and had taken a cup too much, coming home finding her husband at work, demands some money of him. Threatening that if he would not give her some, she would be the death of him, he feeling her in that condition put her downstairs and shutting the door, fell to his work again. 
And within a while after when he thought her heat was over, he goes down in his shirt, as he was at work, intending to drink, she meets him at the stairs foot, and with one side of a pair of sheets gave him a mortal wound in the breast of which he immediately dyed, upon which she presently fled, (her husband being quickly found). Hue and cry was made after her, and that night about twelve of the clock she was taken in Old-Street watch to whom she confessed the fact. 
6.	Of a horrid murther in York-shire
At a village called Wakefield in york-shire lived one Anthony Wilson a man of honest life and good reputation among his neighbours, who farmed one hundred pounds a year (in the sme place) and was a reputed a wealthy man. 
One night when he and his family were in their beds and fast a sleep, six men and one woman broke into the house, and coming into the room where the good old man and his wife lay, with lights in their hands, and vizzards upon their faces, very roughly bound and gagged them, and also two daughters lying in a trundle-bed in the same room, and then going to the rooms where the servants lay, bound and gagged them in the like manner, and having secured the whole family from crying out, or making resistance, they returned to the chamber where Anthony Wilson and his wife lay, and unbinding and ungagging the said Anthony one of them set a pistol to his breast, swearing that if he made the least resistance or noise he would shoot him, and then demanded where his money was, he shewed them the trunk, and gave them the key, telling them there was all that he had, he having but two days before paid his landlord his half year rent.
When they had opened the trunk, and found the six pound odd money, they told him he had more, and they must have it, but he stedfastly denying he had any more, they immediately tyed a lighted match between his fingers until it had burned the flesh to the bones, urging him to confess, who still answered he knew of no more.
Then binding and gagging him again, they unbound and ungagged the woman, asking her where the money was, but she also declared she knew of none but what they had, then they put the same lighted match between her fingers to make her confess (but the truth was, there was no more in the house) after the match had burned her flesh to the bone, they took it away and bounded and gagged her again.
And then taking the money, the best of her linnen, wearing cloaths, and one silver boul, and were going away, but the woman thief being most cruel, would have perswaded her comrades to kill the whole family, but the men were of a little better nature, though overwise cruel enough, and refused to do so wicked a deed, but she being instigated by the devil, took a knife which she had in her bosom and thrust it into the body of the man, and then departed with the rest of the company.
In this sad condition lay this distressed family till seven in the morning, at which time the thrasher finding the barn door shut, went to the house, where finding the door open, went in and finding no body below, he goes up stairs, where he beheld the man dead, and the rest of the family in a sad condition, so unbinding and ungagging the woman, her children and servants, with speed running to the village, raised the neighborhood and instantly pursuit was made several ways after this wicked and barbarous gang.
Let know presuming mortal comply with the temptations and delusions of Satan, to commit this unnatural and abhorred sin of murther, under the vain hopes of escaping undiscovered; for though some for a time have been obscured by flight, from the jsut punishments due to their deserts, yet the all-seeing God will not long permit such guilt to go unpunished, but with his threatened vengeance will certainly overtake such workers of iniquity. 
Finis