Murther upon Murther: Being a Full and True Relation of a Horrid and Bloody Murther, Committed upon the Bodies of Mrs. Sarah Hodges, Wife of Mr. Thomas Hodges, Mrs. Elizabeth Smith and Hannah Williams, at the Loyal Coffee-House near WEll-close at the end of East-Smith-field, on Saturday the 17th of this instant January 1691.

Upon the day aforesaid, about Twelve a Clock, a tub-woman that carries Ale and Beer to private Houses etc came accidentally into a House called the Loyal Coffee House in Ratcliff-High-way near East-smith-field, about some business; when she came at the door, she finding of it open, or not locked, entered; where finding no body in the House, she waited for some time in expectation that some of the Family would come, but having tired her Patience, and seeing things lye about the House in disorder, no fire being kindled, etc, she began to suspect all was not well: she then called, but no body answering, she enquired of the Neighbours, if they had seen any of Mrs. Hodges Family that day (who was mistress of the House;) but they answering in the negative, she desired some body to go along with her into the House, for she said, she found the doors not locked, neither was any fire on the heart; besides, calling and no body answered. The Neighbours admiring as much as the woman, what might be the cause that none of the family appeared, entered the House; where passing through a Room or two, they came to a back Chamber, where they (to their great astonishment) found Mrs. Sarah Hodges (wife of Mr. Thomas Hodges) most barbarously murthered in her naked bed, her throat being cut, and the right side of her head cut, and her skull broke, that the orifice which this fracture caused was at least two inches diameter. this is supposed to have been done with a hammer, or some such like weapon, etc.

Then going into another Chamber, they found lifewise murthered in a most barbarous manner, one Mrs. Elizabeth Smith, a lodger in the house aforesaid; she lay with her arms chasped together, and her face being upwards: whome the inhumane murtherers had stabbed in at the ear, and wounded herin several places about her head, that she lay as it were swimming in her blood; she was in her naked bed likewise. And just by her bed-side, lay murthered on the boards, Hannah Williams, the maid servant of the House. Against this poor Innocent maid, the villains vended their fury in a large measure for they cut her throat from ear to ear, and stabbed her in just above the collar-bone: she was found in her cloaths by the bedside of the aforesaid Mrs. Elizabeth Smith, it is supposed that she was then going to bed, but was put, by these execrable villians, into an everlasting sleep before she had time to call upon God for salvation.

The husban dof this Mrs. Hodges, is now at sea, a mate of a ship, and little thinks what a tragedy has been acte din his house; and Mrs. Elizabeth Smith is likewise much to be pittied, being a curious piece of nature's handiwork, and wherein were displaied, the unparalleled workmanship of the divine creator, whose days are cut off by these inhumane, barbarous, and bloody villainies; and ineed I want eloquence to give them suitable Etithites. These fiends in humane shape, after they had thus barbarously dispatched these poor creatures, took off Mrs. Hodges gold chain from her neck, rings from her fingers, and cut her ears to take our her pendants; as they likewise served Mrs. Smith, and robbed the house of every thing valuable in it, and then escaped, without being discovered; though we make no question, but as the Devil owes them a shame, he will speedily pay them.

Had not the Devil been very great with them, the Horrid Murther committed but three days before upon these poor innocents in the house of captain Giddings (an account of which we have already given you) might have startled and detered them from persisting any further in such execrable villanies. But their consciences are seared, and they are given over by God Almighty, having not the fear of him before their eyes, that they eagerly pursue the Devils Game with open Cries, and no remorse. Therefore of such as these let all honest house-keepers beware.
 