Sundrye strange and inhumaine Murthers, lately committed. The first of a Father that hired a man to kill three of his children neere to Ashford in Kent:
The second of master Page of Plymoth, murthered by the consent of his owne wife: with the strange discouerie of sundrie other murthers. Wherein is described the odiousnesse of murther, with the vengeance which God inflicteht on murtherers. 
Printed at London by Thomas Scarlet. 1591. 
A declaration of the monstrous crueltie of a Father that hired one to murther three of his owne children.
The heavie sentence that almighty God pronounced uppon the paricide Caine, when hee saide, thou art cursed from the earth, that hath opened her mouth to receive thy brothers bloud from thy hand, Ge. 4. Sheweth how odious murther is in his sight. It is therefore behoueth euerie one to have a special care waht actions wee commit, not seeking to murther those that have in some sorte offended us, but to leave, as wee ought, the revenge of all wrongs unto the Lord: for we may be assured we cannot deale colourable with God, as Pilate thought to have done when he pronounced sentence against his own conscience, for hee having at the importunate sute of the Jewes pornounced death upon our saviour Christ, thought to have washed awaie the facte with the washing of his handes and his protestation, in saying I am innocent of the bloude of his just person, whereby indeed he could not cleere himselfe, but according to the saying of Erasmus, in murther the consenter is as euill as the deed dooer. So Pilates conscience made him guiltie of Christes death, for which the wrath of God will followed him: for after that time Pilate in executing his office did nothing but that which was injustice. And beeing thereof accused in Rome, he was by the Emperour Caligula banished, and went to Lions, the place (as some saie) of his birth, though griefe of which disgrace, by the sufferance of God, he desperately slew himselfe, that hee might die by the hand of the most wickedst person that lived. God sayd unto Caine, the voice of the brothers bloud crieth unto me out of my ground. And Plutarch doeth describe many straunge discoveries of murthers, among which hee sayth, that a monstrous sonne, slew his own father, the act being so much against nature, as no man suspected this gracelesse childe for the same, and yet in his owne conscience hee sawe millions of accusers standing before him, and readie (as he thought) to attack him for the same insomuch as upon a daie sitting in a Taverne with a companion of his, he sodainly thrust his sworde by into the chimney, and cried out, saying, Ah you villaine swallowes, quoth hee, leave your babling and exclayming that I slew my father, or I will doe by you as I did by him. His companion hearing this his voluntarie accusation, secretly betrayed the matter to the magistrate, whereby the ungracious sonne was soone apprehended, and executed according to his demerites.
Horour and feare always accompanieth the murther, his owne conscience is to him a thousand witnesses, hee landeth indeed of everie bush, beast, and birde, he imagineth that every thing discovereth his evill, and many times it falleth out, that the silly creatures of the earth detesteth him.
Oh what a straunge and wicked sor discoverie was this yet nothing strange considering the horrour of the filthie fact. God seldome or never leaveth murther unpunished, nor will the marke of murther goe forth of the murtherers weapen, neither can murther bee kept so close, but that by one meanes or other the Lord will compel the murtherer to discover and laie open the turth onto the world, as by this lamentable accident following manifestlie appeareth.
In the towne or parish of Warbone, within foure miles of Ashford market, beeing within the Countie of Kent, dwelled one Lincolne, the unnaturall father of foure unfortunate children. This man being about fiftie yeeres of age was a widower, and therefore became a sutor to a widow not farre from thence who beeing of some reasonable wealth, refused to marrie with him, in respect of his great charge of children. Whereat, as it seemeth, the devill entered so farre into his minde, that he cast many wayes in his thought how to make them awaie, and returning home sate downe in grate heavinesse by the fireside. Whereupon he having a married man that wrought with him in his house, demanded of him why he was to venture, who requiring him also to sit downe by the fire, tolde him that he could not be merrie. Why (sayd hee) howe comes it that you marrie not some honest woman to comfort you, considering you have wherewithall to keepe her. Oh sayde he (fetching a great sigh) there is none wyll have me, in respect of my great charge of children, but sayd he, if I could make them awaie by anie meanes, I coulde marrie with a rich widowe. And thereupon (as it was since confessed) none being present but themselves, the sayd Lincolne perswaded this labouring man to performe his request, and to take this matter in hand, so should he have fortie shillings in money an da good cowe for his paines. But the poore man notwithstanding he seemed at the first unwilling, yet as he was pore, so he was covetous, and the hope of the money and the cowe so wrought in his thought, that forgetting God and all golynes, in the ende without anie greate delaie he consented to the fact, and the rather hee was induced thereunto, for that this unnaturall Father promised that, when the murther was committed, not to pursue or make after him for the same, and that if he were compelled thereunto, yet woulde he deale in such sort, that he would let fall his sute, rather than to take his oath, to saie he was the murtherer. Thus concluding betweene themselves, the daie came wherein the wicked act was performed, which was upon a later daie in November last, on which morning, the father and all his children with the murtherer broke their fast at home together. That done, olde LIncolne prepared himselfe to goe to Ashford market, which he did, taking his eldest sonne with him and the murtherer, they departed towards Ashford, but in the waie the murtherer returned homea gaine to the three innocent children, whome he speedily murthered knocking them on the heads with a hatchet, and cutting all their throates. The father the better to colour his unnaturall consenting to the death of his owne children, bought three paire of new shoes for them, whom he knew shoulde bee murthered before hee came home, and sent his eldest sonne home before, beeing about fiteene yeers old. He could not get in at the doore which was barred on the inner side, beeing he heard none of the children stirring, said there until his father came, who seeing no light, nor hearing of the children, contrarie to his usuall costome (yet might have sene in one of the backe wide) came to his next neighbours house, and prayed that some bodie would go home wit him to see what had happened. In conclusion hee came home with companie, into where he hee witnesses of this tragicall spectacle, for having entered the house, they found murthered two pretie boyes and a girl: which grievous and unexpected sight made the beholders to stand amazed, neverthelesse the harde hearted father made no signe of sorrowe for them, neither woulde he seeke meanes to pursue the urtherer, which by the reporte of his neighbours seemed to bee his man, who onelie was seenea bout the houre after the departure and none else. But this wretched man commended him to bee a verie honest fellow, and therefore supposed his eldest sonne’s bee the author of this murther, and upon him woulde willinglie have imposed the same. 
The next daie following the Father woulde secke no meanes to burie the chidlren, nor that the crowner should view them, but suffered them most unnaturallie to lie above the ground for the space of three daies, untill a Gentlewoman named Mistres West came and repvoed him of his unnaturall dealings towardes them, which done, hee digged a hole in the house about two foote deepe, and layde them in it, but by reason of springs in the ground, the water issued into the pit, and thereby soaked the childrens wounds and bodie, and made them verie cleere and white. Within five dayes after the Crowner came thether, beeing procured thereunto, and founde the children covered with a lyttle earth and a boord over them, whome he caused to bee taken up. This was the eight daie after the murther was committed, in which time the murtherer was apprehended and accused thereof, but he utterly denied the fact. But beeing brought before the dead bodies of the children, the father being there also, the woundes began to bleede afresh, which when the Crowner sawe, hee commanded the partie apprehended to looke upon the children, which hee did, and called them by their names, whereuppon, behold the wonderfull works of God, for the fact beeing still denied, the bodies of the chidlren, which seemed white like unto soaked flesh laid inw ater, sodainly received their former coulour of bloude, and had such a lively countenance flushing in theyr faces, as if they had beene living creatures lying asleepe, which indeed blushed on the murtherers – when they wanted grace to blush and bee ashamed of theyr owne wickednesse. Which wonderfull miracle caused the murtherer there present not onely to confesse and acknowledge himselfe giltie of the damnable deede, but also to accuse the Father of the children as principal procurer of their untimely deaths. Whereupon they were both sent prisoners to Canterbury, where they remained untill the last Assizes holden at Senocke in Kent eighteene miles from London, where they were arainged and condemned to die for the same, so that upon the seaven and twentith daie of Februarie last past they were both executed neere to Ashford, where the father of the children confessed himself giltie of murther, hauing before denied it even till the houre of death. Whereby appeareth that his owne conscience was overcharged with this foule and odious offense, and thereofre would not suffer it to be concealed.
Thus may you see how murtherers are overtaken, and their actions opened by themselves, yea if there were no body to accuse the murtherer, the murthered coarse would give evidence against him. It hath bene a meane appointed by the Lord to discerne the murtherer, that when hee approahced, the dead carkasse would be some issue or other bleede: many have by this miraculous worke of the Lord been discovered, when the proofe hath bene onely bare suspition. This example insuing is to that purpose.
There was not long since at Uppingham in Rutlandeshire, a shoomaker that had murthered a yong man, who was buried and the murtherer little suspected for the same: nevertheless upon bare suspition hee was apprehended and the dead carse digged up againe, before whome this shoemaker was brought uppon whole approache the murthered coarse not only bled, but with one of his eies standing wide open, he stared upon the shoemaker that murthered him. The standers by wonderfully amazed thereat, removed the shoemaker, and presently the eye closed by, and being brought againe, the coarse with his eye wide open, stared uppon him as before, and who wolde saie, this is the murtherer, stay him, my bloud asketh for vengeance. I have here published this matter upon such due proofe as cannot be reproved, it is not yet long since the murtherer was executed at Dukam in the foresayed Countie. An example of great terrour to such as delight in bloud. But what may examples prevaile where grace and the feare of God is wanting, as appeareth by the sequele. 
Of late there was dwelling in Salisburie a young damsell named Alice Shepheard, who being with childe, and yet never married, wold sweare when she was charged therewith that it was most untrue: but the time comming on when she swould be delivered, she was constrained to reveale the trueth to her mother and Grandmother, who presenty fetched a mydwife, making none other acquaintance therewith, neither did she after her comming staye very long, before this maid was delivered of a man childe, whose neck they presently broke, and secretly buried it in the Churchyard, thinking thereby to escape worldly punishment, not fearing the wrath of God for their wilfull murder, nor considering that he saw the secrets of their harts, nor that he would not suffer innocent blood shed to goe unpunished. But now see the will and wonderfull work of almighty God to reveale this most wicked act. I thappened a dog came over the place where the childe lay buried, and having found the sent of the felsh, he never rested untill he had with his feete scraped it up out of the ground: leaving it bare above the earth, whereby it seemeth that they buried it but very shallowe, and was fearfull to be espied, least the fact should thereby be discovered. Now when the dog had laide it open to the eye of each passenger, it happened that one Hugh Mawdes of Salisbury comming by chaunced to spye the same, and was greatly amazed to see so greavious a sight, who presently went and told the maisters of the parrishe what he had seen, whereupon they came to behold this greevous sight, which they perceived was but new born and therefore conluded that it was the childe of some strumpet, and that she had murdered it, and then buried it in that shallowe place, which soon it was convayed with our Lady church in Salibury, where all the cheefe of the towne came in and gave their censures for finding out the unnaturall mother and murderer thereof. 
Among whom mistres Shepheards daugther was nominated and greatly suspected for the same: notwithstanding, upon this bre suspition, the supected person with her mother, grandmother, and midwife was sent for, who being examined before a justice, confessed that the said childe was still borne, and that therefore they privily buried it in that sort: whereupon the justice casued them to be sworne upon a booke that they had said nothing but the trueth, which they severally did. But heer God shewed a miracle before them all, for they having taken their othes before the Justice, they were discharged and sent away, not meaning to deale any further therein. 
But the midwife being touched in conscience with her othe which she had then newe taken, going forth of the Justices dores, suddenly fetcht a great sigh and said: Oh what a wicked woman an I to sweare that childe was still born, wherein troth it was borne alive: which words being over hard by one of the Justices servants, they were all called in againe, where they were cahrged with the murdering of the said childe, which after a faint deniall, they generally confessed. Then were they committed to prison untli the last assizes, where they received the doome of the judgement of death, which of deutye they had deserved for so wicked a deed. Thus we sae that although God suffer the murderer to escape for a time, yet doth he followe them with so shrpe revenge, as either they desperately slay themselves, or reape such shame as the worlde may be satisfied, that God hat dealt justlye with them. 
A true discourse of a cruel and inhumaine murder, committed vpon M. Padge of Plymouth, the 11. Day of February last, 1591, by the consent of his owne wife, and sundry other.
In the towne of Testock 10 miles or thereabouts from Plimouth, there dwelled one M. Glanfeeld, a man of as good wealth and account as any occupier in that Cuntrie. This M. Glenfeeld favoured a young man named George Strangwich, who was of such great credit with him, that he turned over al his wares, shop and dealings into his handes: and tooke so good liking of him being a proper yong man, that it was supposed he should have had his daugther in marriage, and the rather for that he had larned the full perfection and knowledge of his trade in London, in the service of a worshipfull Cittizen called M. Powell in Bred-street, and grew so painfull, and seemed so good a husband as the said M. Glanfeelds daugther did wholye resolve that the saide Strangwidge should be her husband and no other: whereto in troth her parentes never did condescend. But Sathan who is the author of evill, crept so farre into the dealinges of these persons, that he procured the parents to mislike of Strangwidge, and to perswade their DAugther to refraine his companye, shewing her that they had found out a more meeter match for her, and mocioned unto hir that it was their pleasures shee should marrye one P. Padge of Plimouth, who was a widdower, and one of the cheefest inahbitants of that towne, and by reason that the sade M. Glanefeeld did mean to abide at Plimouth, he thought it a more sufficient matche to marrye her in Plimouth, where she might be hard by him, then to marrye her to Strangwidge who dwelt farre from him: In the end such was the successe, that although she had setled her affection altogether upon Strangwidge, yet though the perswasion of her freendes though fore against her will she was married to M. Padge of Plimouth, notwithstanding that she had protested never to love the man with her hart, nor never to remove her affection setled upon the saide STrangwidge, which she performed as the sequell maketh maifest: for this mistris Padge had accesse to Strangwidge and he to her at his comming to Plimouth: whereby the divell so wrought in the harts of them both, that htey practiced daye and night how to bring her husband to his end. And thereupon the said mistres Padge as appeareth since by her own confession, did within the space of one yeere and lesse, attempt sundry times to poison her husband, for it was not full a yeere, but that she had procured him to be murthered as you shal hear immediately. 
But God who preserveth many persons from such perils and dangers, defended stil the said M. Padge from the secret snares and practices of present death, which his wife had laid for him, yet not without great hurt unto his body, for still the pison wanted force to kill him, so wonderfully did alimighty God worke for him, yet was he compelled to vomit blood and much corruption, which doubtles in the end woulde have killed him, and that shortlye. But to prsecute and that with great speed to perform this wicked and inhuman act, the saide mistres Padge and STrangwidge omitted no opportunitie: they wanted no meanes nor friends to erpforme it for their mony, whereof they had good store, and more then they knew how to imploy, except it had beene to better office: for she on the one side practised with one of her servants named Robert Priddis, whoom as she thought nothing would more sooner make him pretend the murdering of his maister the silver and gold, whereiwth she so corrupted him, with promise of seavenscore pounds more, than he solemnly undertook and vowed to performe the talk to her contentment. 
In the other side Strangwidge hired one Tom Stone to be an actor in this tragicall action, and promised him a great somme of mony for perfourming the same, who by a solemne vow had graunted the effecting thereof, though to be the hazard of his own life.
These two instruments wickedly prepared themselves to effect this desperate and villanous deed upon the 11 of February being Wednesday, on which night following the act was committed, but it is to be remembered that this Mistris Padge lay not then with her husband, by reason of the untimely birth of a child where she was newly delivered, the same being a dead borne, upon which cause, she then kept her chamber, having before sworne she would never beare child of his getting and should prosper: which argued a most ungodlye minde in the woman, for in that sort she had been the death of two of her own children.
About ten of the clock at night M. Padge being in his bed slumbring couldno thappen upon a sound sleepe, and lying musing to himselfe, Tom Stone came softlye and knocked at the doore, whereupon Priddis his companion did let him in who was made privie to this deed, and by reson that Mistris Padge gave the straight charge to dispatche it that night whatsoever came of it, they drew towardes the bed, intending immedieately to go about it, M. Padge being not asleep as is aforesaid, asked who came in, where at Priddis leapt upon his maister being in his bed, who roused himself and got out upon his feete, and had been hard enough for his man, but that Stone flew upon him being naked, and suddenlye tripped him, so that he fell to the ground: whereupon both of them fell upon him, and tooke the kercher from his head, and knitting the same about his neck, they immediately killed him: and as it appeareth even in the anguish of death, the said M. Padge greatly laboured to put the kercher from his neck, by reason of the marks and scratches which he had made with his nailes upon his throat, but there he could not prevaile, for they would not let slip their hold unti lhe was full dead. This done, they laid him overthwart the bed and against the bed side broke his neck and when they sawe he was surely dead, they stretche dhim and layde him in his bed again, spreading the clothes in ordinary sort, as though no such act had been attempted, but that he had died on Gods hand.
Whereupon priddis immediately went to Mistris Padges Chamber and told her that all was dispatcht: and about one hower after he came againe to his Mistris chamber doore and called alowd, Mistresse quoth he, let some body look into my Miasters chamber, me thinkes I heare him grone, with that she called her maide, who was not privie to anything, and had her light a candle, whereupon she slipt on her petticote and went thether likewise, sending her maid first into the chamber, she she her selfe stoode at the doore, as one whose conscience would not permit her to come and beholde the detestable deed which she had procured.
The maid simply felt on her Maisters face and found him colde and stiffe and so tolde her mistresse, whereat she had the maide to warme a cloth and wrap it about his feete, shich she did, and when she felt his leeges, they were as colde as claye, whereat she cried out saying, her maister was dead.
Whereupon her mistris got her to bed, and caused her man Pridis to go call her father M. Glanfeeld, then dwelling at Plimouth, and sent for one of her husbands sisters likewise, willing her to make haste if ever she would see her brother alive, for he was taken with the disease called the Pull as they terme it in that country: these persons being sent for, they came immediately, whereat Mistris Padge arose, and in counterfeit maner founded, whereby there was no supition a long time concerning any murder perfourmed upon him, until Mistres Harris his sister spied blood about his bosome, which he had with his nailes procured by scratching for the kercher when it was about his throate: then they moved his head, and found hi neck broken, and on both his kneeds the skin was beaten off, by striving with them to save his life.
Mistris Harris hereupon perceiving how hee was made away, went to he Maior and the worshipfull of the towne, desiring them of Justice, and intreated them to come and beholde this lamentable spectackle, which they immeidatelye perfourmed, and by searching him, found that he was murdered the same night.
Upon this the Maior committed Priddis to prison, who being examined, did impeach Tom Stone, shewing that he was a cheefe actor in the same: this Thomas Stone was married upon the next daye after the murther was committed, and being in the midst of his jollity, suddenly he was attacked and committed to prison, to beare his fellow company.
Thus did the Lord unfold this wretched deed, whereby immediately the said Mistris Padge was attacked upon the murther: examined before Sir Frauncis Drake, knight, with the Maior and other magistrates of Plimouth, who denied not the same, but said she had rather dye with Strangwidge then to live with Padge.
At the same time also the said George Strangwidge was newly come to Plimouth, being very heavy and doubtfull, by reason he ahd given consent ot the saide murder: who being then in company with some of London, was apprehended, and called before the Justices for the same, whereupon at his comming before them, he confessed the truety of all: and offered to rpove that he had written a Letter to Plimouth before his comming thither, that at any hand they should not perfourme the act: nevertheless M. Padge was murdered before the comming of this letter, and therefore he was sent to prison with the rest unto Exceter: at the assizes holden this last Lent, the said Gorge STrangwidge, Mistris Padge, Priddis, and Tom Stone, were condemned and adjudged to die for the said fact, and were all executed accordinglye upon Satterdaye being the twentieth day of Februarye last.
Other strange things seene at that time.
Upon the same night and three nights after, there was seen an ugly thing formed like a beare, whose eyes were as it had been fier, bearing about him a linnen cloth representing the instrument wherewith the saide M. Padge was murdered. 
Also in plimouth the same weeke in the presence of syndry honest persones, was visibly seene a Raven, which did alight upon the head of a ships mast, sank at the end of the towne: this raven standing upon the otp of the maine mast, did with her talents pluck up certaine rope yarnes that hung downe from the head of the maste, and fastened them about her neck, and often turned them about her neck with her force, which doone, she plunged her selfe right down, clapping her wings close to her body, and never left until she had hanged herself. 
Now the ship was all this while a ground, lying with her sterne to the shore, and suddainly the said ship turned her selfe round, and brouhght her stem where earste her sterne did lye, all which are strange, yet is the same so true, as it cannot be disproved, being justified by those that saw the same.
The Lord blesse us, and give all other grace to bee warned by these examples and inhumaine action sbefore recited: that we may avoid the danger of shedding of innocent blood, and feare the judgement of God which continually flloweth wilfull murderers. Eternal God preserve this little Iland, blesse the Queenes Majestie, and her honourable counsell, turn they wrath away from us O Lord, and poure down they blessings upon her highnes, that she our Moyses may long live to holde up the Tables of the Law in her gratious handes, and that we may seek continually to please her in such due fact, as she may have no just cause to throw them down, which God graunt for his mercie sake. Amen. 
Finis.
