THE TRUE CONFESSION OF THE Three notorious and Bloodly Murtherers of Thomas Thynn Esq Viz.
Captain Vratz.
Lieutenant Sterne
and George Boraskie,
To two worthy Divines IN NEWGATE, Before they went to the place OF EXECUTION: Which was at the place where they Commited the Fact on Friday the 10th of this Instant March. 1682.
LLast Sunday in the afternoon the learned and famous Doctor Burnet was Charitably pleased to bestow his pains on the poor condemned Prisoners in Newgate, and not unsuccesifully, for God gave his labours the blessing to be answered both with conviction, and confession, his words were so melting and

powerful that the most Stubborn heart did bow before them, his Sermon was taken out of the 5. chapter of St. Lukes. Gospel and the 32. verse. Viz. I came not to call the Righteous but sinners to repentance: when he had ransackt their wounds and made them Sensible of the heynousness of the Offence for which they were condemned, then (after the Sermon was ended) he went to the Communion Table in that Chappel to exhort them to a full and ingenuous confession what moved them to be concerned in so Barbarous a Murther. To which question Lieutenant Stern meekly, (and with a due Sence of the foulness of the crime) reply'd, that he had now lived thirty years and was never concern'd in any ill thing but this, and that now he was meerly drawn in, not knowing any thing of the Captains designe to Murther the Gentleman, but that he was desir'd to go with Captain Ʋratz, to be his second, the Captain telling him they were to fight on Horsback and accordingly he fitted himself with necessarys Suitable for such an undertaking; and being told that was the person in the Coach, he rode up and stops it, thinking the Captain would have challenged the Gentleman out, but contrary to his inclinations and expectations Boraski the bloody Polander fir'd the Musquetoon into the Coach and Murthered him, whereupon they all fled.

Then the Polander being askt by the Doctor upon what account the committed such a base Villanous and Barbarous Murther as that was? answered that he was sent for over by the Captain and promis'd a great reward to commit that dreadful fact.

The Captain was not there, his Obstinate, Haughty and lofty Spirit, would not stoop to a Sermon of repentance, his courage would not trickle to the advice of a Servant of Christ Jesus, tho he came in love to his poor Soul, No, the Doctor that had taken all this pains to go to Newgate, to Preach to them, and discourse with them, must it seems take a little more to wait upon him: he went to visit this hardned Hero, this Stiffnecked Son of Belial who was the cheif actor of this Tragedy, and when he come to him, all the arguments he could use, could not extort any other confession from him then this, that he had challeng'd him, and because he refus'd to fight him, he designed to Shoot him,

The Doctor asked him and the rest what they thought when they received Sentence, they made answer that they thought nothing more but that they should be saved as well as the Count he being indicted as well as they, so Ignorant they seem'd to be in our English Lawes. This was the chief part of their confession, indeed the Lieutenant and the Polander doe seem afflicted with the horror of their guilt, and well they may, for few Kingdomes can inform us of a more bloody murther,

the Circumstances being duly consider'd: To kill a Gentleman they had hardly ever seen from whom they had no provocation, not so much as an angry word, nor a cross look! this looks like the second part of Sir Edmund Bury; Godfrey's murther methinks I see the Nobles of Poland Germany and Sweedland blush at the very report of it. The Counts Countenance and favour might be the Captains Commission, a piece of unnecessary Gallantry is the Lieutenants Plea, and money made the Polanders Mare to Ride. It was matter of money or rather Matrimony I doubt that made Mr. Thynn so untimely fall. And let their confession be never so slightly slubberd over here, he that commanded, thou shalt not kill, when he makes inquisition for blood will not be mocked.

To another Doctor of Divinity of eminent worth and piety he said he had no intention to Murther Esquire; Thynn, but that the Polander misapprehended him, but being ask'd by the same person who discoursed him in his own Language, whether he went not with an intention to kill or be kill'd? the Captain made answer he did, but designed not his death after so cowardly a manner, the Doctor then said that as he had lusted after the death of a person who had never injur'd him, and whom he knew not, he had committed as great a sin as he that lusteth after a woman with whom he ouhgt not to be concerned, to which the Captain reply'd that he had then been guilty after that rate 500 times, and further added, that rather then he would take an affront, or a box on the ear from any man, he would have his Soul damn'd in Hell, upon these unchristian like words the Gentleman left him.

Liuetenant Stern did acknowledge that he had not been above a month in the Captains Service, and that in all that time he had not said his prayers, and therefore did verily believe that if he had not left God, he had not been any way instrumental to accomplish so heynous a Murther as this was.

Boraski being ask'd how he durst undertake so Barbarous a Murther, reply'd that when the Captain tempted him to it (in their Language) he answer'd, how can I Murther a person that I never received any injury from, to which the Captain made answer, 'tis not you that shall suffer but I.

But it seems he was deceived in this particular, for they are all three like to suffer here, happy for them if their repentance prevent their suffering hereafter.

The Day and the Night before their Execution great interest was made both by money and friendr in the several Houses adjoyning to the place of Execution, which was at St. Albanstreet and where that never to be forgotten fact was committed. the crow'd might paralel the crime for greatness for a greater number of people have been seldome seen upon such like occasions: and notwithstanding strict care was taken to prevent all disorders by the Constables Head-boroughs Beadles and Watchmen, yet it was too hard a task for them to keep of a Rabel, who so eagerly prest upon them as if they itch'd to see Justice done upon such vile, mercinary, Villanous and Barbarous Murtherers.

LONDON, Printed By D. Mallet. 1682.