THE EXAMINAtion, confession, and condemnation of Henry Robson Fisherman of Rye, who poysoned his wife in the strangest maner that euer hitherto hath bin heard of.

AT LONDON Printed by Felix Kingston for R. VV. and are to be solde in Paternoster row at the signe of the Talbot. 1598.


The Epistle to the Reader.
GEntle Readers, amongst all the cruell Stratagems, poysonings and homicides, I haue here described one, which in my iudgement passeth all that euer were inuented; together with Gods prouidence in bringing it to light. And the sooner haue I penned it, that others may beware of being deceiued by Sathan to doe the like, in hope it shall be concealed.

L. B.


The examination, confession, and condemnation of Henry Robson Fisherman of Rye, who poysoned his wife in the strangest maner that euer hitherto hath been heard of.
AT Rye in Sussex there dwelled a man whose name was Henrie Robson, by trade he vsed fishing, and liued long time in very good estimation amongst his neighbors, till such time as through his lauish spending, he came greatly in debt, to his vtter ruine. For when Lucifer had found a meanes how to accomplish his will, he neuer left him til by his diuillish practises he had brought him to the gallowes. For hauing liued there, and being happened into the danger of the law, his Creditors began to put him in suite: whom when he could no waies satisfie, he was cast into prison, where he long time remained languishing in woe. This Robson had a wife, who for her honest

dealing & good neighbourhood, was greatly beloued both of yong and old. And although she could no waies redeeme him, yet did she relieue him in such sort by her diligent labor. that each one wondered at her indeuour: yet neuerthelesse, he little weighed neither her kindnes nor the lawes of God, as hereafter shall manifestly appeare: but deuised continually how he might make her away: who being dead, he determined to sell al that euer he could make, and being redeemed out of prison, to haue conuaied himselfe ouer into the Low Countries, and there to haue liued.

Whilest these mischieuous thoughts harboured in his minde, the diuell stirred vp the minde of one Glasier, being then in prison, to be an instrument to put this his villanie in practise: who one day finding a fit oportunitie, he thus began. Faith Harry I am sorie to see thee liue thus in prison, and hast been so well beloued in this towne. Tush Glasier (sayd this Robson) tis too late now to bee sorie, when there is no remedie: for so long as my wife liueth, it is vnpossible that euer I should come out. Faith then said Glasier) sure if my wifes death could procure my libertie. I would neuer be in bondage, or imprisoned. No (sayd Robson) why my wishes can neuer the sooner procure her death. I but (said the other) your indeuour may, without


being once suspected: and if you wil take my counsell and be secret, I will warrāt you she shall not long liue. Which words, when Robson heard, greatly reioycing at this good hap, he not onely vowed to be secret, but also to put this in speedie execution, and during life to remaine Glasiers friend, if it sorted to good effect. In short time after Glasier was deliuered: at which instant Robson put him in minde of his promise, which he promised presently to accomplish. And hasting downe to one Fishers a Mercer in the towne, bought a peniworth of Ratsbane; and comming to the prison againe, in secret he deliuered it to Robson, willing him to temper it with glasse small beaten, and wrapt in the skinne of a shoulder of mutton, to the quantity of a hasle nut, or lesse, and in the night when his wife should next come to lie with him, he should conuey it into her priuie parts, which hee would warrāt without danger to him shuld kil her: and so he departed. O hainous crime and wicked counsell, the like whereof since Cain murthered the righteous Abel, hath not been heard of. But now marke the euent: some seauen daies after his wife (according to her accustomed order) came to the prison, and finding her welbeloued husband, she saluted him ioying of his welfare. But he who minded nought els but murther, saluted her

with a dissembling shew of friendship: and at night when she would haue departed, hee constrained her to stay all night, which was the dearest nights pleasure that euer womā had: for in the night hee put in practise his former imaginations: which how it worked shall hereafter be declared. In the morning without suspect, the poore sillie woman departing home, little thinking her death shuld so soone approch, falling close to her worke, she found her selfe grieued, and her bodie began to swell more and more. For now it began to runne and eate into her vaines, so that with the extreame paine she was constrayned to goe to bed, where she lay languishing some fiue daies. Her neighbours resorting still to comfort her, and many Phisitions were sent for, all which agreed that she was poysoned. And therefore gaue her many purgations, and vsing many other meanes, but all could not serue: for in their liues they had neuer seene nor heard of so strange an accident. When they had vsed all the meanes they could, her daies of life being now finished, she tooke her last adieus of the world, and so dyed. So soone as she was dead, according to the maner, they would haue prepared for her buriall: but the Phisitions hindered their purpose, and hauing obtained license of the officers, they caused

her to bee ripped, where they found in euerie vaine both glasse and Ratsbane, and yet could not deuise how or by what meanes it should come thither: for that it could not be, it should there happen by any conueiance in meate or drinke: and therefore they determined to finde out by some meanes who was the doer of this villany. And incontiuently, sending to euery shop in the towne to know who lately bought any Ratsbane; at the sayd Fishers (aforesayd) they heard that one Glasier two weekes before had there bought a peniworth. Whereupon they made search for the said Glasier: but he hauing heard of this newes, and knowing himselfe guiltie of the crime, was fled away. Then they bethought how Glasier was then lately returned out of prison where Robson was, whose wife it was that was poisoned. And inquiring further when Robsons wife was with him in prison, they learned that she lay with him in the prison house not full a weeke before. This all being put together, they began to coniecture of the matter: and the Maior, Iurats and Recorder being assembled, they sent for Robson, who incontinent was brought before them: and being come, the Recorder (one master Boulton) began thus.

Neighbour Robson (sayd he) we vnderstand by one Glasier, that you had certaine poyson of him which you caused him to buy; now wee haue sent for you to know to what intent you


bought it: for that you are suspected of the death of your wife, and by some manifestly accused. Which he hearing, began to vse many protestations, that he was as ignorant both of any such poyson, or of the deede, as the childe newly borne. Nay (sayd the Recorder) if you be so obstinate, we will bring Glasier forth, who to your shame shal testifie it, and then you are not onely guiltie of the poyson, but also of the act doing: and therefore confesse the truth & shame the deuill. Well (sayd Robson) I had indeede Ratsbane: but what of that? Why didst thou deny it then (sayd the Recorder?) it shewes a guiltie conscience. But what didst thou with it, and to what intent didst thou buy it? Why (sayd he) the Courthouse is full of Rats, and I bought it to kill them. That is not so (said the Recorder) but the deuill is the father of lyers, and I feare thou art his sonne: confesse the trueth what thou didst with it. Well (sayd Robson) if you will needes know, I will trulie resolue you. I haue been long in prison, and I haue often heard that poyson will breake open any iron lock, and therfore I bought it, thinking thereby to get my libertie. Now I haue told the truth I hope you will pardon me. No (sayd the Recorder) thou hast not told ye truth: for with it and glasse mingled together thou didst poyson thy wife: and therefore as thou lookest for any fauour at our hands, confesse how, and in what maner thou didst it, and who
Unnumbered page

was thy connseller in it. Well, then I perceiue (sayd Robson) you glut after my blood, and if it will pleasure you you shall haue it. For they hauing told him truth, he could no longer denie it: and therfore imagining that Glasier was taken and had confest al, he openly declared the whole maner aforesayd, how and in what maner hee had done it, and for what cause, and who was his counseller: which they hearing greatly marueiled. And so for that time hee was committed to prison, where he remained til the Sessions day, where he was arraigned and condemned, and according to the law hee was there adiudged to be hanged, which was performed.

The Lord of his insinit grace graunt euery one better to withstand Sathans temptations, and esehew his subtilties, that they be not led by his allurements, nor intrapped in his snares, who seeketh by all means to bring euery one to confusion.

    FINIS.