Three Bloodie Murders: The first committed by Francis Cartwright upon William Storre, Mr. of Art, minister and preacher at Market Raisin n the countie of Lincolne.

The second, committed by Elizabeth Iames, on the body of her mayde, in the parish of Egham in Surrie, who was condemned for the same fact at Saint Margarets hill in Southwark, the 2 of Iuly 1613 and lieth in the White Lion till her deliverie; discovered by a dombe mayde, and a dogge.

The third committed upon a stranger very lately neere High-eave foure miles from London: very strangely found out by a dogge also, the 2 of Iuly 1613.

Imprinted in London for Iohn Trandie, dwelling in Barbican, 1613.

To the Reader.

For that some of Cartwrights favourites wanting colour to excuse altogether the foulenesse of this fact, do yet indeavur to qualifie the same in what measure they can, affirming that hee being a young man, was provoked, and slirred up by evill words to commit that in the heate of his bloode, which overwayes he would never have committed. and some others, being them selves either of a loose conversation, or at the least enemies to the Ministrie of the Gospell, would seem to extenuate the crime, by imputing it, as swift reward due, not only to the partie murdered, but also to the most of his calling ofr hteir over-bold checking, and (as they tearme it) domineering over their betters; because indeed, they reproove the gentall corruptions that so abounde in every corner; and least also it might happily be surmised by some indifferently affected, that many things in this relation, might partially proceede in favour of the dead man, from some of his friends it is therefore thought fitte, for the better satisfying of the latter sort, to assure them, that there is nothing set downe, but that which is to be justified by very sufficient proofe: and for the better answering of the former scandalles, and such like, heere by annexed the testimonie (as it were) of foure substanciall iuries, which speake of their credite what they knew concerning the man. The first doth consist of the better sort of his Parishioners where he remayned: the second, of the worshipfull in the Countrie, to whom he was best known; the third, of the chiefe of such ministers among whom be conversed: and the fourth, of the learned in the universittie where he was brought up.

The manner of murther of William Storre Mast. of Art, minister and preacher at Market RAisin in the Countie of Lincolne. 

Not long since, there happened some controversy between the Lords and the rest of the Inhabitants of Market Raisin in the Countie of Lincolne, concerning their Commons and Libertie in the Town-fieldes; and the matter being mooved by one of them in the Church immediately after Evening paper on a Sabbaoth day, divers hot intermperate speaches passed among them: whereupon their minister, whose name was M. Storre, much disliking so indiscreet a courte, willed them to have respect both to the time, and palce where they were: And fruther advised; seeing the raise in band concerned a multitude, (amongst whom, some of the least government, would alwayes be the readiest to speake,) that they would therefore make choyce of two of three of the fittest, and most substantiall men, to answere, and undertake for all the rest.

This motion seemed to please them well, and thereupon they intreated him, that he would then, as a man indffierent,s peak what the thought concerning the cause. But he not willing to intermeddle in that matter, twice or thrice denied their request: and the rather, for that there was present one Francis Cartwright, a young man of an unbridled humour, the only sonne and theire to one of the same lordes of the towne, betwixt whom, and himselfe, there was a growne no small unkindnesse. Yet in the end, being pressed thereunto by their importunitie, with the content of both the parties, bee delivered his opinon, bring therein such discretion and reasons to confirme the same, that they could not directly except against him. Notwithstanding, seeing him incline more to the right of the free-holders and the rest of the commons, then to favour their intended purpose, they see men to dislike his speeches and to cavill at the same.

Young Cartwright standing by, not able any longer to containe himselfe, took occasion hereupon to speak so abruptyly into these words. The priest deserveth a good fee, he speaketh so like a lawyer. Master Storre having often aforetimes had experience of his botte stomache, and hastineese aswell towardes others as himselfe, thought it best to reply little against him for that present. But the other respecting neither the time, nor place, nor yet the dutifull regard bee should have had to this fathers presence, bittered many more such base and odious tearmes, that for modestie safek, I forebeare to reheasrse them. The next morning as master Storre, and some others of his neighbours were talking with the elder Cartwright about these his sonnes abuses, bee came unto them where they were interrupting their conference, and fell into the like outrageous replyings as he bled the night before.

The minister feeling this second incursion more violent then the former, replyed to some of his words, returning them backe againe, as more properly to be applyed to himself.

This reply he took in such high disgrace, that had not his father binded it, hee had there presently with his Dagger effected some part of that mischiefe, which afterwarde bee put in practice: but beeing not suffered so to be, bee separated from them into the open market place, and there proclaymed, that Storre was a scurvie, lowsie, paltrie priest; that whosoever sayd hee was his friend, or spake in his cause, was a Rogue and a rascall: that hee would (but for the Law) cut his throat, teare out his heart, and hang his quarters on the May-pole.

These speeches and many more of the like qualitie being dayly given out, occasioned M. Sottre to thnk it now high time to provide for his owne safetie; and therefore hee went to some Justices neere adjoining; acquainted them with these rpoceedings, and desired the good-behaviour against the said Cartwright. But they doubting whether they might grant the fame in this case, or not, offered him for his present safegard, the Peace, and the other at the next quarter sessions, if occasion so required.

Hee not resolved what were left to be done, whether to accept of this offer, or to complaine himselfe before the high commissioners; came home, and the next Sabaoth took his text out of Isaah Chap. 1. verse 9. in these words. Except the Lord of the Hostes had reserved uto us, even a small remannt, we had been as Sodome, and like unto Gomarah. The which wordes, by the generall repose even of his enemies that heard him, he handled very learnedly, and delivered out of the same, many poyntes of necessary doctrine; using ever among, sundry loving exhorations, noa dn then also as occasion served, inserting some sharpe, and nipping repichentious.

Young Cartwright seemed to note it diligently with his pen: but as the stomacke filled with raw humors, corrupteth all good nourishment that commeth therein; so this mans minde fraught with rancor and malice, wrested all thinges he heard, into the word sente, as purposely spoken against him; and after that, more and more thirsted for revenge;

And a week after, he slyped M. Storre walking about eight of the clock in the morning alone, by the south side of the towne in his cloake, went ot the Cutler's shop, and tooke out of the same a shop sword, formerly provided and made very sharpe for that purpose, an dpresntly overtooke him. The other hearing one of this heeles, looked back, and saw him drawing his sword as he came; noting also by the palenesse of his visage, how migtely he was incented to mischiefe; and seeing no meanes eight to cleave, or to defend himselfe, was greatly agast, and purposed to some speeches (if it were possible) some what to allwaye his passions.

But Cartwright beeing doubled armed, both with force, and furie, would abide no parly, but presently at the first blow, cutte his left Legge almost off; and then making at his head, M. Storre casting up his armes to defend it (for other weapon had he none), hee gave him two metall wounds on the forepart thereof thorow the braine-pall, cutt off three of his fingers, and gave him other two grievous wounds on the outside of either ARme betweene the Elbow and the Band; the one to the middle of the arme, and the other more then halfe in sunder, deciding the maine bone two pinches one part from another.

Thus massecred, hee fell backward into a puddle of water, and driving to recvoer himselfe, the splinter-bone of his leggehalfe cut throwo afore, knapt in two, and his heele doubled back to the calfe of his legge.

Cartwright not yet satisfied with the blood he had already gotten, continued his rage still more fiercely upon him, and gave him another gasp on the outside of the right thight to the very bone: and againe on the left knee, his legge being bended as he lay, he cut him the fashion and compasse of his worse-shoe, battering in peeces the whirlebone, and the nether part of the thigh-bone, that it was most grievous even to behold. Some finaller woundes be bad, and sundry other blowes which came not to his skinnes as appeared by the mangling of his apprell.

A made comming that way by occasion of businesse cryed out; whereupon hee fledde, and many of the neighbours came presently to the palce, and beholding this woefull spectacle, their minister thus wallowing in the myre, and his blood so extreamely gushing out, ranne some of them into the towne with such a confused noyse, and outcry of murther, and others hearing it, supposed there had been fire, and went with all speed to towle the belles. Thus was all sadainely in the byrore, yet few or none could tell what the matter was. The rest of more discretion, tooke up the wounded man, carryed him to the next house, where one of the constables dwelt, and made very good and speedie meanes to binde up his woundes, and to stanch his blood.

Against the next day, was provdied a bone-setter and three or four of the best Chyrugiones thereabout; who when they came to presse him, were of opinion, that if hee died no tat the opening of his woundes, and forcing togither of his house, hee would be at the least be very subject to so often sounding. yet hee beyond all their expectation, indures all extreamities (which necessitie in the case imposed on him to abide,) for three bowers space at the least, it never fainted, or changed colour. The which thing induced them to alter their minde, and to hope, (as it were) past all hope, that he would escape it. But the deadly blowes had so perished his braines, and let out so great a quantitie of his blood in other partes of his body, that it was not possible he should recover: so that after hee had languished in very great paine from Monday morning til the next Sunday after midnight; (which was at the change of the moone,) he ended his life.

The time that hee thus continued, hee spent much to the profite of himselfe, and to no lesse comfort of those that came to visit him: for besdies many divine meditationes hee dayly uttered, and thanks to God for his to merifull a visitation, in giving him both such time, and memories to prepare himself: hee alle heartily forgave, and continually prayed for his greatest and deadliest enemie, whom hee esteemed now, in worse fate and more miserable, then himselfe.

Now to grieve the dead man (as no doubt he is) with the law: it is not amisse briefly to declare by what meanes the offender escaped.

Presently after he had committed this crueltie, he hasted to his fathers house, on the backe-door; and the trueth of this sort being now knowne, many that were already assembled, and knew not at the first, above what matter, came to apprehende the fellon. But his father fearing last in the desperate heate, hee should doe some more mischiefe, did what hee could to pacifie the tumult untill the constables came, and then delivered him. They sending for three or foure of suche as they thought best, which had some of them seene the woundes as well as one of the constables himselfe had done, carryed him to t a justice: where, either for lacke of their due information of the trueth, or by the corrupt, and favourable affection of the magistrate, or back, there was a very sledner bayle taken, and the malefactor by thisflight sent away.

Presently after his escape, the manner of his murther being so barbarous, and comming to the cares of the late L. Arch. of Canterburie, and of some other of the privie councell, a pursivant of the messenger was by them directed foorth for the jsutice that thus had rayled him; who not willing to make his apperance before their honours, obtained by great and special meanes, and the rather, because of his age and impotencie (being not able to travell) to have the bearing of the casue referred to the judges of the that circuit, at their next assizes. In the meane time, (as still he remayneth) hee was put out of commission; and the constable also in whole beaste M. Storre died, was bound over to answered for his contempt.

When the assizes should have been kept, upon some [unreadable]

Whereupon hee durst never knew himselfe opnely, but lurked in secret among his friendes, hoping that either the widow might be compounded withall, or else to find some errour in her rpoceedings, to everythow her appeale. but when he could no way prcuayle, either with the large offers dayly made to bee for agreement, no this counsaile, finde any erroneious proceedings, that might hold plea in law to stoppe her suite; he fledde the seconde time, and (as it is thought) remayneth beyonde the seas, where he was before.

The testimontie of his Parishioners.

Forasmuch as some uncharitable people, not satisfied with the guiltelesse blood of M. Storre our late minister, give out slaunderous speaches aginst him now dead, as proceeding from us his parishioners: wee therefore willing to cleare our selves from such untrueths, doe give to understand to whom these presentedes shall come: that as (no doubt) the fact was haynous before God: so is it a thing most grievous unto us, aswell in regard of his wife and five small children, whole stasse of bread (as himself sayd) by this means is broken; as also chiefly that such a man should thus perish amongst us; whole learning, diligence, and dexteritie in teaching the word of God was equall (as we are persuaded) to the better lost of his fellow ministers: his conversation to answerable to his doctrine, and his carryage such in all his affayres, that (in our judgment) it might have been a president to direct a civill, and christian life. Thus having witnessed the trueth in the premisses, wee rease. from Market Raisin.

Edm. Wright Mich. Iesoppe. Tho. Harwicke.
Hum. Chapman. Rich. Wright. Will. DAnnotte.
Iohn Dannotte. Chri. Gyfford. Iohn Cater.
Iohn Rutter. Wil. Wright. Will. Hansley.
Rich. Pockley. Christ. Wright. Leo. Hill.
Alex. Lamming. Mich. Hanson. Iohn Talor.
Rob. Lillie. Hen. Parker. Iam Robinson.
Tho. Brakes. Pet. Parker. Edw. Fawsire.

The Testimonie of knights and esquires.

Being requested, for some special causes, to deliver under our handes what wee knew concerning M. Sotrre late Vicar of Market RAisin, Wee whole names are subscribed, neighbours somewaht neere adjoining, thought it our Christian duetie to yeelde testimonie therein accordingly. And therefore doe dignifie, that wee accompt the manner of his death, a part of most barbarous crueltie; so wee much lament that it happened to a man so well approved generally for a good Scholler, a pinaefull Preacher, and for many other commendables partes, which (if by untimely death hee had not been cut off,) might otherways have been greatly beneficiall both to the Church, and Commonwealth, Given at LIncolne.

George S'poll
Edward Ayscoghe
Edeard Tyrwhitte
Phillip Tyrwitte
Thomas gRandtham 
Thomas Dalison
Vincent Fulnetby
Knightes

Char. Metham.
Ric. Rossetter.
Fran. Bullingham.
Richard Gedney
Edw. Saltmarish
Esquires.

The Testimonie of Preachers

Whereas upon the late murder of William Storre master of ARtes and preacher, of Market Raisin in the Countie of LIncolne, there hath been set abroche certaine certaing to his disgrace, in favour (as it is thought) offender: wee thereofre the ministers, to whom hee was knowne, thither by nevermeste of dwelling, or by conversing with him, do figure to all those to whome this our testimonie shall some, that were always held, and resputed the sayd William Storre, not only for his learning, and sufficiencie in his calling, a man farre passing many others: but alle of such bonett and commendable bearing of himselfe in his life and conversation, that his greatest adversaries could never while he lived (as wee are verily perswaded) justly take exception against him. In witnesse whereof wee have subscribed our names.

Law. STanton
George Garth
Alex Southwicke
Iohn Chadwick
Roger Parker
Rich. Terswell
Theo. Tavery
Tho. Barton
Rich. REneger.
Geor. Elan
Hon. Nelson
Will. Mason
Doctors, and Bachelors of Divinitie

John Downes
Amos Bedford
Chith. Dale.
Iohn White
Will Symonds
Will Lawnd
Hugh Brown 
Paul Balaie
Rich. BAuman
Rob. Houghton
Rich. Preston
Nich. Clarke
Masters of Art

The testimonie of the universitie.

Forasmuch as wee are intreated by certaine ministers of the countie of LIncolne, to signifie twaht opinion wee held of William Storre maister of artes, and late fellow of Corpus Christi Colledge; Wee whole names are under written, do by these presentes, give him this testimonie; that for the time of his aboade in our universitie, hee shewed himselfe very sober, and honest in his conversation: hee was of quiet cariage in his place, studieous, learned, and religious: of great, and special hope to proove a worthy member in the Church of Christ, Oxon.

John Hwwson Vicecar Oxon.

Edm. Lillie
Rich. Kilby
Raph Kettell
Iohn Aglionbye
Nich. Higges
Iohn Rainolas
John Perin
Iohn Williams
Leon Hutton
Tho Holland
Geor. Abbot
Hen Airey
Will. Therne
Doctors of Divinity

Tho. Luddington
Chri Membry
Christ. Chalfount.
Robert Burhill
Ric. Crakanthorpe
Sebast Benfeld
Pet Hooker
Iohn Barcham
Edw Hyst
Tho Burton
Henry HIndle
Rich Alleine
Batchelers of Divinitie

The cruell murder of a yong maiden, committed by Elizabeth James, of the parish of Egham in Surrey, most strangely revealed by a dogge, and a dumb-woman, for which bloody fact (being with child) she lyeth condemn'd in the VVhite Lyon in Southwarke.

All the life of a wise man is a meditation of death. Aug.

How happy are those men that are so truly wise for this serious meditation of death, is a true shield of defence, against the multitude of most grievusus, and dangerous temptations, taht in this world, men are subject unto. Out of such a divine meditation spake S. Hierome these words: Whether I eate or drink, or whatsoever I doe, methinks I heard alwaies founding mine cares, surgit mortui, etc. ARise you dead, and come to judgement. 

O happy, thrice happy is that man, that this most blessed meditation of death and judgement, prepares and makes ready (in the multitude of the mercies of Christ Jesus) for death and judgement: But how this sweet meditation is neglected, and the meditation of mischiefe respected and practiced, is by the many evill, bloody and damnable ends of it, almost every day, and in every place laid open unto us. And among others let us look with wet eyes, and heavy hearts, upon the cruelty of Elizabeth James, a keepers wife of the parish of Egham in Surrey, which was thus.

It chaunced that a young mayden, going to take a servutee, came to the house of this woman and decided her pitty, either ot take her in, and entertain her, as a servant, or there, as a border to let her have a little time; til they might (thereabout) heare of a service, and she would willingly content her sufficiently, both for her boord, and house-roame: this woman seeing the maide to be a pretty young wench, and handsomely apparreled, but especially minding the profitable promise she made her, with an outward shew of pious compassion, and pitty, took her into her house; where, for a time, she so kindly and lovingly bred her, that the poor harmlesse maiden thougth her selfe very happy, tha ti was her chance to find out so good and vertuous a woman. But as tis commonly said; they that know least mischiefe, mistrust least, and so consequently, are soonest deceived. Tis apparent between these two, for this deceitfull woman, when shee perceived the maid had some sum of mony, by little, and little, some of one time, and some at an other, she were left borrowing of her, till she had and left no more to lend her; and not onely thus deceived her of her money, but her cloathes also; when this poore mayden had many times, patiently demaunded them, and could not get them, shee was forst to complain to her master, who, till then, knew nothing of his wives cozenage, and hard brage of her; he pittying the maydens plaint, and very (honestly) willing that shee should hvae her owne, spoke some waht sharpely to his wife about them, and forced her to return unto her, that mony and apparell, that she so deitfully had taken from her. Whereupon, much strife arose between this wicked woman, and her honest well0meaning husband: but of this good that he intended, much more will suceeded; for the next day her husband being gone forth, about this ordinary businesses, as looking to his grounds, and such like: this cruell woman, being empty of all grace, (as I have before sayd) no thougth of death and jdugement, no love to heaven, nor feare of hell in her bosom, most mercilessly bragg'd this little maiden by the haire of her head, into an inter roome where having her at that advantage she looked for, shee drew her knife and told her taht now shee would be found revenged upon her for the hard words, and blowes, that she had received from her husband, upon the complaint that she had made against her.

The poore mayden, feeling there was no hope of life, but in mercy, upon her kneeds with her hands reached up, her eyes dropping, and such pittifull groaning, as would have extated pitty from a pagan, entreated that she would not kill her, and told her, that all that she had (if she would be so mercifull) should be hers, and that she would patiently bee gone, without speaking any word to any creature, of the mischiefe, she intended against her.

But neither her promises, prayers, feares, groanes, nor any other pittymoving action, that past from her, could turne that more than tiger hearted woman, from that bloody purpose: for patiently she began her butchery at the throate of this poore mayden, which when she had to cruelly cut, (her hands reaking in the blood of it) with a hatchet that she had ready for the purpose, shee cut off her head: then by the divell prompted her, to the very utmost of his most horrid impiety, she cut her poore wounded body into many small peeces, some of which she burnt, some boiled, and some in the dead time of night, she buried in her garden.

Her husband at his returne, when he mist the maiden, thought nothing, but that his wife had given her her due (as hee commanded) and turnd'd her away. A day or two after, he was purposed to do digge that bed in his garden, underwhich his wife had buried the bloody pieces of that poore maidens body: but she perceiving this purpose, desired him of all, that he would not stir that bed, nor in any sort meddle with it, because she had bestowed great labor and cost in seedes, that she had but newly sowen in it: he thinking of no such mischiefe, as tho fear'd would be discounted, did not goe as he purposed, but forbore it, as she requested.

Thus for a time, this bloody murther lay concealed, though to reveale it a poore dumb woman, that saw the curelty acted, many times, and to many persouns, by her signes, and dumb shews, so well as she could did labor her best to beware it. But from all her signes, as pulling her selfe by the haire, drawing her hand ore her throate, stabbing herself (as it were) upon the breast, wringing her hands, weeping or any thing that she could do, they could not gather her thing that they knew how to make any matter of.

But here see the certainty of the sacred word of the Almighty, which sayes, that he that smites a man that he die, shall die for it, Exod. 21. SEe here (I say) the goodnesse of this omnipotent God, that sees sinne, hates sinne, and will punish sinne. When this dumb woman sufficeintly expressed her meaning, to make them understand her, a hungry dogge senting about for prey, in the garden of this bloody mardress, sented on the pieces of that poore maiden, that she had there buried., and then never left scraping up the earth, till he found the ehad of her, which (by the haire of it) he carried in his teeth, and there before the honest keeper, Goodman James, the bloody harted woman his wife, and other of his neighbores that were with him laid it down: upon the site of this, they were all very much amazed, the innocent persons at the strangenesse of it, and the murderesse with her feare. Then again this poore dumb woman made signes to resolve them absolutely of the murder, inw hich she took up the head, and pointing to the murderesse, showed how she cut it off. Then wasting went with her hand to have them follow her,she went into the garden, and there pointed to the bed, that the poore murdered maide was hid in. Her husband seeing this, presently calld to mind, his wives forbidding him to dig in it and the excuse that she made to prevent him, and by these cirucmstances began to have failed thougts of the sinne of his wife, in the murdering of this maiden, and presently digg'd a little deeper, and found that finall pieces of her. The neighbours likewise, by all these and other guilty lignes they saw in her (which did as it were in a plain confession bewray her) did presently apprehend her this murdresse, when being carried before a justice, she was sent up to the white lyon in Southwark, where long she lay not, ere at S. Margets Hill, she was arraign'd, and sentenced to her deserved death: but because shee is with child, her execution is put off, till after her delivery from this sinne and all other, god Lord deliver us. 

But now, tho this little be too much, I must speake somewhat more of this bloody sin, but briefly, because yet the curell actor, or actors cannot be found, or heard of.

Upon Friday last, being the second day of Iuly, a maid going a milking neere Finchly, and with her young man, her fellow servant, having a mastiffe dogge with him: this dogge while they were about their businesse, stayed from them, senting up and owne, to find somewhat to feed on and going thus too and fro (not farre from the place where they were ) in a by field, neere Newgate lane, he found the slaughtered body of a man, upon which the dogge staide feeding. After a little time, the young man missing him, whistled and called about for him; and by and by the dogge leapt ore a hedge out of the field, and came to him, and being come presently hee retired to the dead body againe. The young man marveiling to see him so hastily and greedily go backe againe, followed him, and being come to the place, found him feeding very earnestly upon a leg of that dead body, all which he had almost eaten (for which, the young man presently after fearing, that having had a taste of human flesh, he would be ravenous after it still, and so prey upon children, handed him.) But (as I was saying): this young man and the maid seeing this lamentable spectacle, ran presently up to the towne and told it, which was no sooner spoke, but many both mena nd woman came downe to see him, but amonst them all, there was not any who kenw him.

The body it seemed had lyen long in that place, before it was thus found out, for the haire was faine from the head of it, and lay therby in a cloth that had been bound about it, the eyes pickt cleane out of their places and (as some say) the empty holes, were fill'd up with the dung of cirds, and some other such like filthinesse, his bodie alike so insufferably, that no man almost could endure to come within any reasonable distance of it. In the wounds that were to be seene upon this body, was to bee seene, the most inhumane, bloody, and ineffable cruelty, or that, or those Cains, those marble hearted villaines that there had kill'd him, for he had three or foure thrusts, quite through his body, neare the heart, his nose was cut off, and his cheeks were flat, and crost so lamentably that it was even a terror almost to behold him.

Thus, so wie sayes (after he was removd from the private place, wher ehe was found) thus he ly upon, neere the high way, to the view of all passengers, to find if any among the multitude, that came to see him could name him. But whether by reason his face was so grievously disfigured with cuts or otherwise, I know not, but there hath not beene any yet heard of, that could either tell his name or the place of his dwelling. But by whom soever murdered, or whereforever hee dwelt, he now lies there buried in the ighway more the place where hee was murdered, and found: and till the murderers can be found here is all that can be spoken of him: what they are, and where they are God knowes, and will no doubt at his good will and pleasure reveale them. For, howsoever they do yet ly hidden from the eyes of men, from the all-seeing eyes of almighty God, they do not: but that's a thing we too seldome think on. For as a reverend Doctor sayes concerning this: If we could always have in minde these three things, viz. that there is all eyes above us, that sees all we do, an eare that heares all we say, and a book, in which all our wordes and eeds are written, we should never sin (meaning capitally).

This almighty God, that sees all, heares all, and knowes all, gives us all grace to meditate of those things, and labour in those things, that make to his honor, and glory, and the happinesse of our soules, with him in his blessed kingdome, everlastingly, Amen.

Finis.

